# A Random Walk Down Wall Street The TimeTested Strategy for Successful Investing
- Difficult as the job may be, picking stocks whose earnings grow is the name of the game. Consistent growth not only increases the earnings and dividends of the company but may also increase the multiple that the market is willing to pay for those earnings. Thus, the purchaser of a stock whose earnings begin to grow rapidly has a chance at a potential double benefit—both the earnings and the multiple may increase.
- Rule 2: Never pay more for a stock than its firm foundation of value.
- Rule 1: Buy only companies that are expected to have above-average earnings growth for five or more years.
- Look for growth situations with low price-earnings multiples. If the growth takes place, there’s often a double bonus—both the earnings and the multiple rise, producing large gains. Beware of very high multiple stocks in which future growth is already discounted. If growth doesn’t materialize, losses are doubly heavy—both the earnings and the multiples drop.
- Rule 3: Look for stocks whose stories of anticipated growth are of the kind on which investors can build castles in the air.
- find that rate increases lag behind increases in costs. On
- individuals appear to go mad in herds and bid some categories of stocks to unreasonable heights.
- One of the funnier bits from David Letterman’s show was the segment “Stupid Pet Tricks,” where pet owners have their animals perform all manner of dumb antics. Unfortunately, investors often act very much like the owners and pets on the TV show—and it isn’t funny. They are overconfident, get trampled by the herd, harbor illusions of control, and refuse to recognize their investment mistakes. The pets actually look smart in comparison.
- brilliant investing book Winning the Loser’s Game,
- Any investment that has become a topic of widespread conversation is likely to be especially hazardous to your wealth. It was true of gold in the early 1980s and Japanese real estate and stocks in the late 1980s. It was true of Internet-related stocks in the late 1990s and early 2000 and condominiums in California, Nevada, and Florida in the first decade of the 2000s.
- Odean’s advice to investors: If you are contemplating making a stock trade (and you are married), ask your wife whether you should
- Odean’s advice to investors: If you are contemplating making a stock trade (and you are married), ask your wife whether you should do it.
- And remember: Never buy anything from someone who is out of breath.
- The single most important thing you can do to achieve financial security is to begin a regular savings program and to start it as early as possible. The only reliable route to a comfortable retirement is to build up a nest egg slowly and steadily. Yet few people follow this basic rule, and the savings of the typical American family are woefully inadequate.
- It is critically important to start saving now. Every year you put off investing makes your ultimate retirement goals more difficult to achieve. Trust in time rather than in timing. As a sign in the window of a bank put it, little by little you can safely stock up a strong reserve here, but not until you start.
- If you want a get-rich-quick investment strategy, this is not the book for you. I’ll leave that for the snake oil salesmen. You can only get poor quickly. To get rich, you will have to do it slowly, and you have to start now.
- So put time on your side. Start saving early and save regularly. Live modestly and don’t touch the money that’s been set aside. If you need further discipline, remember that the only thing worse than being dead is to outlive the money you have put aside for retirement. And if projections are to be believed, about one million of today’s baby boomers will live to be at least one hundred.
- For individuals, home and auto insurance are a must. So is health and disability insurance. Life insurance to protect one’s family from the death of the breadwinner(s) is also a necessity. You don’t need life insurance if you are single with no dependents. But if you have a family with young children who count on your income, you do need life insurance and lots of it.
- Insurance Corporation can guarantee the safety of your funds. To find an Internet bank, go to the Google search engine and type in “Internet bank.” You will also see many of them popping up when you do a rate search on www.bankrate.com for the banks with the highest yields. The Internet banks generally post the highest CD rates available in the market.
- 1. History shows that risk and return are related. 2. The risk of investing in common stocks and bonds depends on the length of time the investments are held. The longer an investor’s holding period, the lower the likely variation in the asset’s return. 3. Dollar-cost averaging can be a useful, though controversial, technique to reduce the risk of stock and bond investment. 4. Rebalancing can reduce risk and, in some circumstances, increase investment returns. 5. You must distinguish between your attitude toward and your capacity for risk. The risks you can afford to take depend on your total financial situation, including the types and sources of your income exclusive of investment income.
- But now for the final exam: If you expect to be a net saver during the next five years, should you hope for a higher or lower stock market during that period? Many investors get this one wrong. Even though they are going to be net buyers of stocks for many years to come, they are elated when stock prices rise and depressed when they fall. In effect, they rejoice because prices have risen for the “hamburgers” they will soon be buying. This reaction makes no sense. Only those who will be sellers of equities in the near future should be happy at seeing stocks rise. Prospective purchasers should much prefer sinking prices.
- However, it’s usually a good time to buy after the market has fallen out of bed.
- In the Talmud, Rabbi Isaac said that one should always divide one’s wealth into three parts: a third in land, a third in merchandise (business), and a third ready at hand (in liquid form).
