# AI Engineering
- When Google launched Gemini in December 2023, they claimed that Gemini is better than ChatGPT in the MMLU benchmark (Hendrycks et al., 2020). Google had evaluated Gemini using a prompt engineering technique called CoT@32. In this technique, Gemini was shown 32 examples, while ChatGPT was shown only 5 examples. When both were shown five examples, ChatGPT performed better, as shown in Table 1
- For each request, two or more models are selected to respond. An evaluator, which can be human or AI, picks the winner. Many developers allow for ties to avoid a winner being picked at random when drafts are equally good or bad.
- Asking users to pick can also cause user frustration. Imagine asking the model a math question because you don’t know the answer, and the model gives you two different answers and asks you to pick the one you prefer. If you had known the right answer, you wouldn’t have asked the model in the first place.
- In general, the number of examples in an evaluation set should be large enough for the evaluation result to be reliable, but small enough to not be prohibitively expensive to run.
- As a reference, among evaluation benchmarks in Eleuther’s lm-evaluation-harness, the median number of examples is 1,000, and the average is 2,159. The organizers of the Inverse Scaling prize suggested that 300 examples is the absolute minimum and they would prefer at least 1,000, especially if the examples are being synthesized (McKenzie et al., 2023).
- GPUs have thousands of smaller, less powerful cores optimized for tasks that can be broken down into many smaller, independent calculations, such as graphics rendering and machine learning. The operation that constitutes most ML workloads is matrix multiplication, which is highly parallelizable.
