# CODE
- Morse but who made his mark much more precociously. Little is known of his life, but what is known makes a compelling story. Louis Braille was born in 1809 in Coupvray, France, just 25 miles east of Paris. His father was a harness maker. At the age of three—an age when young boys shouldn't be playing in their fathers' workshops—he accidentally stuck a pointed tool in his eye. The wound became infected, and the infection spread to his other eye, leaving him totally blind. Normally he would have been doomed to a
- In a syllogism, two premises are assumed to be correct, and from these a conclusion is deduced. The mortality of Socrates might seem straightforward enough, but there are many varieties of syllogisms. For example, consider
- invented at least 120 years ago. And what's really nice is that we don't have to actually build anything in our living rooms; instead, we can build this adding machine on paper and in our minds. This adding machine will work entirely with
- requires only that you add a pair of decimal digits. In this example, you begin with 5 plus 3. The problem goes a lot faster if you memorized an addition table sometime during your life. The big difference between adding
- You've probably heard it said that "Subtraction is merely addition using negative numbers." To which you've probably replied, "Yeah, but you still have to subtract them." Well, using the ten's complement,
- You've probably heard it said that "Subtraction is merely addition using negative numbers." To which you've probably replied, "Yeah, but you still have to subtract them." Well, using the ten's complement, you don't subtract numbers at all. Everything is addition.
