# Couples That Work
- dual-career couples pass through three distinct transitions on their route from becoming a couple to retirement. Each transition plunges a couple into a landscape of new questions, different concerns, and novel ways of relating. And each requires couples to tackle specific psychological and social forces that underpin their relationship. While the transitions push couples to tackle a deeper layer of their relationship and lives, they involve revisiting the agreements forged during previous transitions.
- When I ask dual-career couples in their forties whether they can have it all, most roll their eyes. But when I ask dual-career couples in their late twenties, they are likely to say that they have heard the arguments, read the articles, and may even logically accept that most couples cannot have it all. But, they add, “We’re different, right? We are lucky, we have each other, and we work hard. Perhaps most couples can’t have it all, but we can.” That is the powerful illusion that a promising career start and a blossoming love foster.
- The first, however, holds special importance because to accommodate to it, couples can no longer maintain independent career and life paths—they must join those paths into one.
- Throughout my research, I have kept coming back to our conversations and have used insights from other couples to develop a more systematic tool: couple contracting. It is not designed to tackle specific challenges (I’ll share ideas on that as the chapters unfold). Instead, it is designed to help you be deliberate in your transitions. I’m describing it here because the earlier couples get into the habit of using it, the smoother their transitions seem to be. It is, however, a tool that can help couples at all life stages. Couple contracting involves in-depth discussions of three areas—values, boundaries, and fears.
- The thought of couple contracting makes some feel nervous: What if my partner and I disagree? What if it sparks conflict and relationship strife? The fact is, hard shared choices in life are never made through easy conversations. My research shows that while these conversations can feel a little stilted, couples who shape their relationship deliberately through them find them an integral and meaningful part of their lives.
- So revisiting it every year or at every major transition is wise.
- Contempt is the most destructive pattern because it conveys that you don’t respect your partner and that you think yourself superior. Behaviors that signal contempt include mimicking, sarcasm, mocking, eye-rolling, and sneering. Contempt occurs when we dismiss and denigrate the other’s feelings. It is the opposite of empathy.
- Criticism usually starts out small. People pick out and condemn minor details of their partner’s behavior or appearance. But it soon escalates, making your partner feel resentful and controlled. Criticism devalues the other and signals that they should submit to your will. In the face of criticism, our partners usually resist, and the cycle of control and resistance kills cooperation.
- four horsemen of the apocalypse,
- Defensiveness. People act defensively without knowing it, and everyone does when their partner is contemptuous or critical. Without realizing it, most of us believe that when our partner does something that hurts, it is intentional, but when we do the same thing, it is inadvertent. This double standard means that when we act defensively, our partner responds defensively, creating a vicious circle that destroys intimacy.
- Either way, stonewalling isolates you from your partner.
- Of all the things that can help communication, kindness stands out as the most important predictor of satisfaction in a partnership.
- You can express kindness in two ways. The first is through small acts of generosity and consideration. Letting your partner sleep in while you get the kids up, making them a morning coffee, rubbing their shoulders after a hard day at work, taking an interest in their favorite hobby, buying small unexpected gifts. In the early days of relationships, many of us do such things freely, but as time goes by and we become busy, we start taking our partner for granted and our generosity at times erodes, or at least appears to.
- It’s easy to flick into blame mode, attribute it to their laziness or carelessness, and criticize them. It is harder to recognize that they just absentmindedly forgot because they were mulling over a stressful issue at work.
- In couples where kindness abounds, both partners see each other as decent people who have the other’s best interests at heart. Believing your partner has good intentions means that when they do let you down, you are more likely to attribute it to an external event—work stress, traffic, and the like—and not blame them. Likewise, when your partner does something kind, you are likely to attribute it to them being a good person.7 Both assumptions lead to a more satisfying relationship.
- All couples sometimes communicate in negative ways. None of us is perfect. What psychologists find important is not whether we communicate in negative ways, but the ratio of negative to positive communication. A classic study found that a 5:1 ratio (or more) of positives to negatives sets couples on a good track.9 This
- All couples sometimes communicate in negative ways. None of us is perfect. What psychologists find important is not whether we communicate in negative ways, but the ratio of negative to positive communication. A classic study found that a 5:1 ratio (or more) of positives to negatives sets couples on a good track.
- and that long to-do list that buzzes in the back of their minds. Yet undivided attention is the fuel of relationships. And it’s a very powerful fuel.
- “How was your day?”
- couple contracting.
- Couple contracting involves in-depth discussions of three areas—values, boundaries, and fears.
- VALUES. What makes you happy and proud? What gives you satisfaction? What makes for a good life? These are all questions that can help you figure out what you believe matters most. People use values to assess whether their life is turning out the way they want. When our choices and actions align with our values, we feel content. When they don’t, we feel stressed and unhappy. If openly discussed, values can help determine your priorities. For example, if you and your partner both value family time highly, neither of you should take a job that requires seventy-hour workweeks.
- BOUNDARIES. Setting clear boundaries reduces uncertainty and eases decision making. It’s helpful to consider three types of boundaries—place, time, and presence. Many people whose careers are mobile have places they would love to work and live in at least for a period. You may want to be based in a certain location to raise your children, another as you get closer to retirement. There may be places you would prefer to avoid. Careers also demand a lot of our time. People face periods where they have to put in more hours than they would like, such as a time-critical project or the run-up to a big promotion. But how much is too much work? Finally, and related to time, is physical presence. Would you and your partner be fine with taking jobs in different cities and living apart for a period? What about short-term secondments and job swaps? How much work travel is too much, and how will you juggle travel between you? What is the minimum amount of time you want to spend together?
- FEARS. Much like the canaries that miners once used to warn of gas leaks, explicitly discussing fears can help you spot when your relationship is entering dangerous territory. It can also lead you to take preemptive actions to ensure that your fears are not realized. There are a host of fears you might have about your relationship and careers.
- My research shows that while these conversations can feel a little stilted, couples who shape their relationship deliberately through them find them an integral and meaningful part of their lives.
- Contempt is the most destructive pattern because it conveys that you don’t respect your partner and that you think yourself superior. Behaviors that signal contempt include mimicking,
- Contempt is the most destructive pattern because it conveys that you don’t respect your partner and that you think yourself superior.
- Criticism usually starts out small. People pick out and condemn minor details of their partner’s behavior or appearance. But
- Criticism usually starts out small. People pick out and condemn minor details of their partner’s behavior or appearance.
- Defensiveness. People act defensively without knowing it, and everyone does when their partner is contemptuous or critical.
- Stonewalling is the total refusal to discuss or consider your partner’s perspective.
- but as time goes by and we become busy, we start taking our partner for granted and our generosity at times erodes, or at least appears
- When presenting my work to groups, I sometimes run an exercise in which each partner asks the other a simple question; for example “How was your day?” Then for three minutes, they simply listen to the response.
- We are all at times guilty of riding one of the four horsemen of the apocalypse. We can also be kind and think kindly of our partner and give them undivided attention. The more you lean in the direction of the latter, the easier your conversations will become. Practicing this way of being together will not just help you with couple contracting and your daily interactions, it will increase the holistic quality of your relationship.
- Partners in the double-primary model dynamically juggle two primary careers. Of course, this is difficult to do. The major strategy for accomplishing it is to set explicit boundaries that help the partners remain on an equal footing.
- They may be temporal; for example, the couple may set rules regarding a maximum amount of work-related travel time or weekend meetings, or rules designed to equalize the sharing of household tasks and child care.
- The danger is that, unless couples set strong, clear boundaries and adhere to them faithfully, they can quickly fall into the trap of trying to do it all.
- So rather than simply rejecting the idea of a career-prioritization model, I urge you to consider it seriously and discuss it with your partner. If you decide to choose a model and live with it for a time, you have the option to change or discard it by mutual agreement. And even if you decide not to commit to a model, discussing the options and your feelings about them will be an eye-opening process that will help you learn more about your partner’s values and desires—as well as your own.
- That sounds logical enough. But my research reveals a different pattern. The most popular model among the couples who reported feeling most successful in their lives and careers was the double-primary model.
- They must agree on boundaries, create their own definitions of fairness,
- conversations and make explicit agreements about career prioritization. They must agree on boundaries, create their own definitions of fairness,
- conversations and make explicit agreements about career prioritization. They must agree on boundaries, create their own definitions of fairness, and address specific areas of disagreement as they arise.
- couples to communicate more deliberately about career-prioritization issues.
- So let’s accept, without guilt, the basic realities of parenting. The fact is that all couples (dual-career or otherwise) outsource some child care—whether to relatives, a school or nursery, or a dedicated nanny. This is not simply a contemporary phenomenon. In many traditional societies, elder relatives in extended families do most of the child care while parents work. Outsourcing still leaves many hours of the week to spend with your children, and deciding how to spend those hours and how to share the responsibilities and the rewards of children has major implications for your relationship. As with career prioritization, it can be very helpful to make a conscious choice among alternative parenting models. Here are three to consider.
- So be warned: though you and your partner may commit in good faith to a co-parenting model, the trap of traditional gender roles is likely to exert a powerful, continuing influence on your behavior, whether you realize it or not.
- good place to start is by discussing what you both want from your careers and life over the medium term—say, the next five years. Sharing career-prioritization and parenting models will help you get to the nitty-gritty of how it will all work.
- A good place to start is by discussing what you both want from your careers and life over the medium term—say, the next five years. Sharing career-prioritization and parenting models will help you get to the nitty-gritty of how it will all work.
- Try to devote a day or more to an open-ended conversation with your partner about these topics.
- Most couples find that the toughest piece of the puzzle is choosing a career-prioritization model and then defining how to implement it. For example, if you agree to try the turn-taking model, who will have the primary role first? For how long? What career milestone will mark the point at which the primary and secondary roles should flip—a particular promotion, a specific annual salary, or some other accomplishment?
- One exercise that can be helpful in choosing your career-prioritization model is to draw your expected career trajectories. Consider role models whose careers you might hope to emulate and think about the turning points they experienced in their careers. From these maps, you may be able to extrapolate a pattern that your career may follow. Some professions, including medicine, academia, and the law, require long, modestly paid apprenticeships before taking off. Other careers, such as corporate jobs in large multinationals, necessitate geographic relocations to get ahead. Some careers accommodate periods of pushing ahead at full steam, interspersed with periods of slower growth, while others feel more like a full-speed-ahead race all the way. Still other careers, like those of serial entrepreneurs, involve cycles of exploration, growth, maturity, and departure that may be repeated three, four, five, or more times.
- all the things that can help communication, kindness stands out as the most important predictor of satisfaction in a partnership.
- At this time, the tendency to think of there only in terms of external change holds people back. Your transition may well involve an external change, but it is the inner ending and the inner change that will lead you to the external ones. This makes your ability to stay with the inner questions and change critical.
- People with a fixed mindset believe that intelligence, ability, and character are static traits that cannot be changed.
- people with a growth mindset believe that those same qualities can be developed through dedication and effort.
- In contrast, when people have a growth mindset, they believe that relationships grow when the couple works through rough times together. If partners disagree or fight with each other, they conclude that they need to invest more in their relationship.
- In short, couples with a growth mindset are more resilient in tough times, and rather than weakening their relationship, difficulties can actually strengthen it.
- First, abandon the fairy tale image of “the one.” Couples who have good relationships have them because they invest in each other,
- Second, show gratitude for the effort your partner puts into your relationship.
- Third, frame challenges not as wholly negative, but also as opportunities for growth. Relationships become resilient in tough times.
- Finally, celebrate your growth with each other. All too often, couples wait for external achievements to celebrate—the promotion, the pay rise, or the recognition.
- Celebrating growth in your couple, the overcoming of difficulties, the ease at which you can have meaningful conversations are important to keep your growth mindset alive.
- Two years later, they had stabilized their broader path, and felt content and fulfilled traveling along it. Not all couples follow this pattern. For some, the second transition doesn’t lead to reciprocal individuation, but to a frozen path and to a strained or broken relationship.
- Indira and Nick’s story illustrates how couples need to revisit agreements forged in their first transition to successfully complete their second.
- Some couples agree on what they both want, lay the psychological ground,
- Some couples agree on what they both want, lay the psychological ground, but simply cannot agree on or make the practicalities work.
- Many just don’t make enough to build significant savings after all their expenses are paid off. Some, even as their salaries grow, stretch themselves to buy a bigger house, locking themselves into a cycle of spending more as they earn more. It’s natural to reward yourself for your success, but rewarding only through spending locks you
- Many just don’t make enough to build significant savings after all their expenses are paid off. Some, even as their salaries grow, stretch themselves to buy a bigger house, locking themselves into a cycle of spending more as they earn more. It’s natural to reward yourself for your success, but rewarding only through spending locks you into always needing the income level you currently enjoy or more. If you think long-term, saving is a much better reward because it buys you the option to change in the future.2 One of the key benefits of being in a dual-career couple is that two incomes can provide a financial cushion to enable transitions, but realizing this benefit takes self-control, planning, and of course an element of luck.
- have patience with everything unresolved in your heart and to try to love the questions themselves as if they were locked rooms or books written in a very foreign language. Don’t search for the answers, which could not be given to you now, because you would not be able to live them. And the point is, to live everything. Live the questions now.
- have patience with everything unresolved in your heart and to try to love the questions themselves as if they were locked rooms or books written in a very foreign language. Don’t search for the answers, which could not be given to you now, because you would not be able to live them. And the point is, to live everything. Live the questions now.
- Mistrusting our partner’s explorations and becoming defensive Not mutually supporting each other’s development
- Develop a mutual secure base relationship: Understand how best to support your partner in their transition and build mutuality in your relationship
- that we are expecting more and more from our relationships.7 Good enough is no longer enough.
- We want them to be committed not only to us, but also to our development and to our potential. This was exactly what people I interviewed craved from their partner during their second transition.
- While making sure that everything was going well on the surface, Eleanor and Christoph had stopped taking an active interest in the highs and lows of each other’s lives and stopped pushing each other to become their best selves. They had also stopped paying attention to what Christoph referred to as “the small stuff.” They put petty disagreements to the back of their minds rather than working them through together. They held on to small disappointments rather than airing them. Over the years, this accumulation of small stuff resulted in a gulf filled with resentments and blame.
- A shared passion is something that you engage in together, that concerns neither your careers nor your children. It is an expression of who you are as a couple and is an important way of maintaining a shared sense of “we.” The couples I have spoken to have a huge variety of shared passions, from playing in a music band together, to running a scout group, to sailing, to renovating and reselling houses. Some of these passions are big, others small; some ongoing, others sporadic. What they have in common is they provide a space for a couple to come together in service of a joint interest or goal.
- What impressed me most about Angela and Robert was that they never shied away from tough conversations and they constantly invested in working things through. Some of the big choices they made—living apart for long periods, not being helicopter parents,
- is that it’s not what you do, but how you do it that makes the difference.
- Likewise, and as someone who often works with Gianpiero, my husband, I can attest that while working together may be best avoided for some couples, it can be a highly rewarding route for others.
- A quote widely attributed to Sigmund Freud says that “love and work are the cornerstones of our humanness.”
- Freud’s view was prescient. The dilemma dual-career couples face today is that we want to thrive in both love and work, yet one of those endeavors—work—is overvalued by the external world, and the other—love—is immensely powerful, yet often undervalued by that world. When was the last time someone congratulated you for being successful in love?
- “Who says they wished they worked more on their deathbed?” we cry. Of course, love is more important. We may believe this, but few of us act on this belief. Work cannot love you back, we reason. But that is no reason to dismiss it either. The truth is, work gives many of us a sense of meaning and fulfillment. To deny that is to deny our humanness. The discrepancy between how we value love and work also leads us to view the two as antagonistic. If we succeed in one, surely the other will suffer, we reason. Our logic turns our love
- The discrepancy between how we value love and work is easy to deny. “Who says they wished they worked more on their deathbed?” we cry. Of course, love is more important. We may believe this, but few of us act on this belief. Work cannot love you back, we reason. But that is no reason to dismiss it either. The truth is, work gives many of us a sense of meaning and fulfillment. To deny that is to deny our humanness. The discrepancy between how we value love and work also leads us to view the two as antagonistic. If we succeed in one, surely the other will suffer, we reason. Our logic turns our love and our work into a zero-sum game. It doesn’t have to be this way.
- Second, we must make an active choice, every day, to invest in both. I use the word invest purposefully. When we invest in something, we devote our time and energy to it with the goal of it appreciating in value. In love, investment includes giving our partner our undivided attention, embracing difficult conversations, being kind in our relationship, enjoying an active sex life, and keeping our partner in mind. This investment yields a strong, fulfilling, and ever-deepening relationship. In work, investment includes striving to give our best work and helping others around us to do the same, searching for the professional path that aligns with our calling rather than the expectations of others, and continuously learning new things and developing ourselves. This investment yields an interesting, fulfilling, and meaningful career.
- First, we must acknowledge that loving and working are both important to our soul, and act on that knowledge.
- instead we always search for ways to improve, to hone our art.
- Because the art of loving and working is not one we can master alone, its very nature means that it can only be mastered together.
- Becoming explorers again: Tips on developing a mindset that can unlock a capacity for joint revitalization in your couple (
