# Die with Zero
- Well, people at the Federal Reserve Board track such things, and here’s what they find: For any income group you look at, the age of “inheritance receipt” peaks at around 60. In other words, if you were betting on how old someone will be when they inherit money—assuming you know nothing else except that they stand to inherit—60 is your best bet.
- So, for example, if the peak utility of money (the time when it can bring optimal usefulness or enjoyment) occurs at age 30, then at age 30 every dollar buys you one dollar’s worth of enjoyment. By age 50, the utility of money has declined considerably: Either you would get a lot less enjoyment out of that
- for example, if the peak utility of money (the time when it can bring optimal usefulness or enjoyment) occurs at age 30, then at age 30 every dollar buys you one dollar’s worth of enjoyment. By age 50, the utility of money has declined considerably: Either you would get a lot less enjoyment out of that same dollar or you would need more money (say, $1.50) to obtain the same amount of enjoyment as you got out of $1 back when you were a healthy, vibrant 30-year-old. For the same reason, as your adult children age, every dollar you give them goes less far, and at some point that money becomes almost useless to them.
- person’s ability to extract enjoyment from money, because it takes time, money, and, above all, health. Many 80-year-olds just can’t travel much or far—their health prevents it. But you don’t need to be completely debilitated to want to avoid some of the hassles associated with travel. The less healthy you are, the less you’re able to cope with long flights, airport layovers, irregular sleep, and other travel-related stressors.
- The utility, or usefulness, of money declines with age.
- Nothing has a greater effect on your ability to enjoy experiences—at any age—than your health. In fact, health is actually a lot more valuable than money, because no amount of money can ever make up for very poor health—whereas people in good health but with little money can still have many wonderful experiences.
- You can’t leave the timing of the peak to chance—to get the most out of your money and your life, you must deliberately determine the date of your peak. Later in this chapter I will give you some guidance on how to know and pinpoint that date.
- Our culture’s focus on work is like a seductive drug. It takes all of your yearning for discovery and wonder and experiences, promising to give you the means (money) to get all those things—but the focus on the work and the money becomes so single-minded and automatic that you forget what you were yearning for in the first place. The poison becomes the medicine—that’s nuts!
- Another strategy for squeezing the most experiences out of your early golden years without quitting your job is to cut back on your work hours if you can.
- The more valuable you are to your current employer, the more likely it is that they’ll be willing to work with you on your terms.
- After all, if you are 55 and a valued worker, chances are you’re earning more per hour than you’ve ever earned before. But remember that your goal isn’t to maximize wealth but rather to maximize your life experiences. That’s a big turnabout for most people.
- Most opportunities don’t present an extreme asymmetry of risk, but if you think them through,
- Most opportunities don’t present an extreme asymmetry of risk, but if you think them through, you’ll often see that the downside isn’t as high as you might think.
- That happens in a lot of areas, where the balance between risk and reward changes with time—until the window of opportunity is gone forever. When you’re young, every risk you take can pay off in a big way if you succeed: Your upside is huge. At the same time, the downside (in other words, what happens when you take the risk and fail) is low, because you have a lot of time to recover. In poker, for example, you can sometimes buy more chips, or “reload.” Well, when you’re young, you’re at a stage in the game of life when you can reload and reload and reload.
- First, whatever level of risk you’re comfortable with, whatever bold moves you might contemplate for your life, you’re generally better off making those moves earlier in your life.
- Second, don’t underestimate the risk of inaction. Staying the course instead of making bold moves feels safe, but consider what you stand to lose: the life you could have lived if you had mustered the courage to be bolder. You’re gaining a certain kind of security, but you are also losing experience points. For example, realize that if you avoid certain risks, you will get 7,000 experience points instead of 10,000. That means you end up with a life that’s 30 percent less fulfilling. If you say that 30 percent less fulfillment is worth the peace of mind you get, well, that’s okay.
- Third, I’ll remind you that there’s a difference between low risk tolerance and plain
- Third, I’ll remind you that there’s a difference between low risk tolerance and plain old fear.
- Identify opportunities that you’re not taking that pose little to risk to you. Always remember that you’re better off taking more chances when you are younger than when you’re older. Look at the fears that are holding you back, rational or irrational. Don’t let irrational fears get in the way of your dreams. Realize that at every moment you have a choice. The choices you make reflect your priorities, so be sure you’re making those choices deliberately.
- Rather than just focusing on saving up for a big pot full of money that you will most likely not be able to spend in your lifetime, live your life to the fullest now: Chase memorable life experiences, give money to your kids when they can best use it, donate money to charity while you’re still alive. That’s the way to live life. Remember: In the end, the business of life is the acquisition of memories. So what are you waiting for?
