# Dollars and Sense
-    Do we spend our time wisely? Or do we spend more time driving around looking for a gas station that will save us a few cents than we spend trying to find a cheaper mortgage?
- So, opportunity costs are what we should think about as we make financial decisions. We should consider the alternatives we are giving up by choosing to spend money now. But we don’t think about opportunity costs enough, or even at all. That’s our biggest money mistake and the reason we make many other mistakes. It is the shaky foundation upon which our financial houses are built.
- This is just one more example of how when we represent money in a general way, we end up undervaluing it compared to when we have a specific representation of that money.
- By eliminating the sales and “savings,” JCPenney removed an element that helped their customers feel that their decisions were the right ones. Just looking at a sale price next to a “regular” price gave them some indication that they were making a smart decision. But they weren’t.
- These examples show that relativity is a basic computation of the human mind.
- Our widget is on sale! Fifty percent off! Exciting, right? But stop for a second. Why do we care about the sale? Why do we care about what it used to cost? It shouldn’t matter what the cost was in the past since that’s not what it costs now. But because we have no way of really knowing how much this precious widget is worth, we compare the price now to the price before the sale (called the “regular” price), and take that as an indicator of its high current amazing value.
- Are these logical choices? No. Are they the right choices? Often not. Are they the easy choices? Absolutely.
- seems that discounts are a potion for stupidity. They simply dumb down our decision-making process. When an item is “on sale,” we act more quickly and with even less thought than if the product costs the same but is marked at a regular price.
- Happiness too often seems to be less a reflection of our actual happiness and more a reflection of the ways in which we compare ourselves to others. In most cases, that comparison is neither healthy nor good. In fact, our tendency to compare ourselves to others is so pronounced that we had to come up with a commandment not to covet thy neighbor’s stuff.
- But let’s not get too deep and philosophical. Let’s not worry about happiness and the meaning of life. At least, not just yet. Just take those emotions and store them away in a little box. Compartmentalize these things. Like we do.
- Jane shows us an extreme example of MENTAL ACCOUNTING, another way we think about money that has little to do with actual value. Mental accounting can be a useful tool, but it most often leads to poor decision-making, especially when we’re unaware we are even using it at all.
- In fact, when people tell us that they have a hard time controlling their spending, we acknowledge that they could budget for everything, but we also tell them that it’s likely to be so annoying that they’ll just give up. Instead, we suggest they decide how much they want to spend on a broad category of “discretionary
