# Expecting Better
- These recommendations increasingly seemed designed to drive pregnant women crazy, to make us worry about every tiny thing, to obsess about every mouthful of food, every pound we gained. Actually getting the numbers led me to a more relaxed place—a glass of wine every now and then, plenty of coffee, exercise if you want, or not. Economics may not be known as a great stress reliever, but in this case it really is.
- The key to pregnancy is that when the egg starts making its way down the tube, the sperm has to be waiting for it. This means the best time for sex or insemination is the day before or the day of ovulation. It takes some time for sperm to swim into the fallopian tubes, so the day after ovulation is generally too late.
- mitigating factor (women who are nauseous drink less, and nausea is a good sign about a healthy pregnancy
- Kegels get a lot of play in the world of pregnancy. In medical terms, these are called pelvic floor exercises. Here’s how to find your pelvic muscles if you haven’t already. Go pee (shouldn’t be too hard, given that you are pregnant). Squeeze your muscles to stop midstream. Feel that? Those are your pelvic floor muscles (men have these, too; same procedure to find them). Kegels are nothing more than exercises where you repeatedly squeeze those muscles to strengthen them.
- Advising women to sleep or lie exclusively on the left side is not practical and is irrelevant to the vast majority of patients. Instead, women should be told that a small minority of pregnant women feel faint when lying flat. Women can easily determine whether lying flat has this effect on them, and most will adopt a comfortable position that is likely to be a left supine position or variant thereof…since finding a comfortable position in bed in late pregnancy is not easy, physicians should refrain from providing impractical advice.14
- This is where the location of birth matters. Anemia is not very common in the United States because our nutrition is fairly good. This means that delayed clamping is perhaps less beneficial. In the developing world, anemia is much more common, and the benefits likely outweigh the risks. The ultimate question for you is whether you are worried more about anemia or more about jaundice. We are lucky that in the United States both conditions are extremely treatable, so you’re unlikely to make a big mistake either way.
