# Four Thousand Weeks
- Or else, eventually, to break down: it’s now common to encounter reports, especially from younger adults, of an all-encompassing, bone-deep burnout, characterised by an inability to complete basic daily chores – the paralysing exhaustion of ‘a generation of finely honed tools, crafted from embryos to be lean, mean production machines’, in the words of the millennial social critic Malcolm Harris.
- This happens for some people in prayer, or in meditation, or in magnificent landscapes; I’m pretty sure my toddler son spent the whole of his infancy in such a state and is only now beginning to leave it. (Until we get them onto schedules, babies are the ultimate ‘task-orientated’ beings, which, along with sleep deprivation, may explain the other-worldliness of those first few months with a newborn: you’re dragged from clock time into deep time, whether you like it or not.) The Swiss psychologist Carl Jung, visiting Kenya in 1925, was setting out on a hike in the first glow of dawn when he, too, was suddenly plunged into timelessness:
- But gradually it became more common to be paid by the hour – and the factory owner who used his workers’ hours efficiently, squeezing as much labour as possible from each employee, stood to make a bigger profit than one who didn’t. Indeed, some cantankerous industrialists came to feel that workers who didn’t drive themselves hard enough were literally guilty of stealing something.
- believe it sketches a kind of life that’s vastly more peaceful and meaningful – while also, it turns out, being better for sustained productivity over the long haul.
- All of this illustrates what might be termed the paradox of limitation, which runs through everything that follows: the more you try to manage your time with the goal of achieving a feeling of total control, and freedom from the inevitable constraints of being human, the more stressful, empty and frustrating life gets. But the more you confront the facts of finitude instead – and work with them, rather than against them – the more productive, meaningful and joyful life becomes. I don’t think the feeling of anxiety ever completely goes away; we’re even limited, apparently, in our capacity to embrace our limitations. But I’m aware of no other time management technique that’s half as effective as just facing the way things truly are.
