# GeraldMWeinbergTheSecretsofConsultingAGuidetoGivingandGettingAdviceSuccessfully
- The First Law of Consulting: In spite of what your client may tell you, there's always a problem. The Second Law of Consulting: No matter how it looks at first, it's always a people problem. The Third Law of Consulting:
- The First Law of Consulting: In spite of what your client may tell you, there's always a problem. The Second Law of Consulting: No matter how it looks at first, it's always a people problem. The Third Law of Consulting: Never forget they're paying you by the hour, not by the solution.
- Never promise more than ten percent improvement.
- If you happen to achieve more than ten percent improvement, make sure it isn't noticed. The best way to make sure it isn't noticed, of course, is to help the client take all the credit. Consultants who don't bury their huge successes are like guests who clean their shoes on the table napkins. They aren't invited back.
- Never Forget They're Paying You by the Hour The Third Law of Consulting could be interpreted to mean that the consultant should milk the client for as much hourly money as possible,but that's not what it's about. Many good consultants have tried to get paid by the solution, but none to my knowledge has ever succeeded. To succeed, you would first have to get the client to admit that there was a problem, then that the problem was big enough to justify paying you well for solving it. The Third Law of Consulting actually reminds the consultant that if the clients had wanted a solution, they would have paid for a solution. Deep down, people want to be able to say to their management, "Look, we realize that there is a problem, and we are working on it. We have retained a consultant." Later, when the consultant leaves, the statement is changed to, "How could we be expected to solve this problem? We had a high-priced consultant here for three months, and she couldn't solve it. It obviously just can't be solved." The Credit Rule
- Never Forget They're Paying You by the Hour The Third Law of Consulting could be interpreted to mean that the consultant should milk the client for as much hourly money as possible,but that's not what it's about. Many good consultants have tried to get paid by the solution, but none to my knowledge has ever succeeded. To succeed, you would first have to get the client to admit that there was a problem, then that the problem was big enough to justify paying you well for solving it. The Third Law of Consulting actually reminds the consultant that if the clients had wanted a solution, they would have paid for a solution. Deep down, people want to be able to say to their management, "Look, we realize that there is a problem, and we are working on it. We have retained a consultant." Later, when the consultant leaves, the statement is changed to, "How could we be expected to solve this problem? We had a high-priced consultant here for three months, and she couldn't solve it. It obviously just can't be solved."
- You'll never accomplish anything if you care who gets the credit. In order for a consultant to get credit, the client would have to admit there had been a solution. To admit there was a solution, the client would have to admit there was a problem, which is unthinkable. As a result, the only consultants who get invited back are those who never seem to accomplish anything. Whether these consultants actually
- You'll never accomplish anything if you care who gets the credit. In order for a consultant to get credit, the client would have to admit there had been a solution. To admit there was a solution, the client would have to admit there was a problem, which is unthinkable. As a result, the only consultants who get invited back are those who never seem to accomplish anything.
- When the clients don't show their appreciation, pretend that they're stunned by your performance—but never forget that it's your fantasy, not theirs.
- If they didn't hire you, don't solve their problem.
- As a dishwashing consultant, I lose this immediate satisfaction. If my client is having problems with encrusted peanut butter, I can render advice or even demonstrate improved technique. But in spite of my best efforts, the peanut butter may remain encrusted, because it's up to my client to implement the ideas.
- Yes, what about the money? The going rate for dishwashers around here is about $9,000 a year. In contrast to that, a consultant might make $30,000; a trainer, $50,000; a lecturer, $80,000; and an author (better than me!), $150,000. In each case, the wider the audience, the more you can make.
- dishes, no matter how much they enjoy the immediate gratification. And although consultants may live well, they don't retire early, the way lecturers and authors sometimes do. So keep your hands out of the dishwater and on the keyboard! You'll not only get rich, but you'll have a vast influence on the health and cleanliness of the nation! Or so it would seem, but for that damnable Law of Raspberry Jam! And what is this ironclad principle standing between me and happy riches? Take a small jar of raspberry jam and a few loaves of bread. With a bit of experimentation, you will soon observe that The wider you spread it, the thinner it gets.
- Influence or affluence; take your choice.
- As a consultant, I often get so involved in my clients' problems, that I begin to believe I could actually rid them of problems once and for all. But. according to Rudy. there's always another problem. At the beginning of this chapter, I promised that I would try to discourage you from entering the consulting business. First, I hit you with Sherbie's Laws, which warned you that nobody really wants your help, and that even when people seem to be asking for it, they're really only fooling you. Then, I revealed The Law of Raspberry Jam, which showed you the futility of trying to be an effective human being and make a decent living at the same time. But perhaps that only bothered you until you learned Weinbergs' Law of Twins, which made it quite clear that you weren't likely to be effective in any case. But just on the chance that you happen to be effective, Rudy's Rutabaga Rule demonstrates that you'll merely bring up another problem to replace the one you've somehow managed to solve. And if by some remote fluke you solve the second one, there will be another. And another. And then another, ad infinitum.
- down this volume by now, it's probably a good sign: You don't give up easily.
- Actually, if you want to be a consultant, and if you haven't put down this volume by now, it's probably a good sign: You don't give up easily. So now I'm going to reward you by letting you in on the real secrets of consulting: The Hard Law, The Harder Law, and The Hardest Law.
- If you can't accept failure, you'll never succeed as a consultant.
- The ability to find the problem in any situation is the consultant's best asset. It's also the consultant's occupational disease. To be a consultant, you must detest problems, but if you can't live with problems, consulting will kill you.
- People who can solve problems do lead better lives. But people who can ignore problems, when they choose to, live the best lives. If you can't do both, stay out of consulting. The Hardest Law
- People who can solve problems do lead better lives. But people who can ignore problems, when they choose to, live the best lives. If you can't do both, stay out of consulting.
- To make a bundle, be a star; Spread it wide and spread it far. But if you want to change the sun, Best begin with Number One.
- Helping myself is even harder than helping others.
- It helps to understand why you stumble, but most important things can be explained only in jokes, riddles, and paradoxes.
- requests and sends an impulse to the mouth to respond, "What are you willing to sacrifice?" In the diseased individual, however, this neural pathway is interrupted, and the mouth utters some distorted phrases like, "Yes, boss. Right away, boss."
- In a healthy individual, the optimization nerve receives such requests and sends an impulse to the mouth to respond, "What are you willing to sacrifice?" In the diseased individual, however, this neural pathway is interrupted, and the mouth utters some distorted phrases like, "Yes, boss. Right away, boss."
- The tradeoff chart indicates that if you want to run faster, you'll have to restrict yourself to a shorter distance, assuming that all other factors are kept the same. Alternatively, it says that you can run further if you're willing to go more slowly. But most important, it says, You don't get nothin' for nothin'.
- responses such as the following: 1. What distance do you wish to work with? 2. It will be relatively easy to get a system that runs fast at 100 meters, if it doesn't ever have to run 30,000 meters very well. 3. We can easily find an off-the-shelf system, like GMW in Figure 2.4, which will lower the cost, but if you want world record performance, there aren't going to be many candidates at any distance. 4. If you need long distances, your 100 meter times may not be so good. Once the questions start, there's a chance that the solution effort will be on a reasonable path, acknowledging that you don't get anything without paying for it.
- Moving in one direction incurs a cost in the other. Until you learn to master the art of thinking in tradeoff terms, and then learn to juggle simultaneous tradeoffs, you'll never be a healthy consultant.
- Selection said that the more adapted an organism was to present conditions, the less adaptable it tended to be to unknown future conditions.
- The better adapted you are, the less adaptable you tend to
- The better adapted you are, the less adaptable you tend to be.
- possible to establish trust by recommending only low-risk alternatives. This strategy is another now/then tradeoff: small results now for the possibility of bigger results later. But later, the consultant will be better adapted to the situation, and thus less likely to provide a truly big idea. These consulting tradeoffs may explain something I've observed in myself and other consultants: Consultants tend to be most effective on the third problem you give them.
- By working with a client for an extended period of time, it's possible to establish trust by recommending only low-risk alternatives. This strategy is another now/then tradeoff: small results now for the possibility of bigger results later. But later, the consultant will be better adapted to the situation, and thus less likely to provide a truly big idea. These consulting tradeoffs may explain something I've observed in myself and other consultants: Consultants tend to be most effective on the third problem you give them.
- "And freshly squeezed?" "No more than two hours before serving." "I see the problem." "Well, that's the test. After posing this problem, you listen to what the banquet managers tell you." "They'll probably say that it can't be done." "That might happen," LeRoy said, "in which case they flunk The Orange Juice Test." "But I know managers who would say, 'No problem,' just to get the business."
- "No more than two hours before serving." "I see the problem." "Well, that's the test. After posing this problem, you listen to what the banquet managers tell you." "They'll probably say that it can't be done." "That might happen," LeRoy said, "in which case they flunk The Orange Juice Test." "But I know managers who would say, 'No problem,' just to get the business."
- "And freshly squeezed?" "No more than two hours before serving." "I see the problem." "Well, that's the test. After posing this problem, you listen to what the banquet managers tell you." "They'll probably say that it can't be done." "That might happen," LeRoy said, "in which case they flunk The Orange Juice Test." "But I know managers who would say, 'No problem,' just to get the business." "... which also flunks The Orange Juice Test. They might be lying, or they might really think there's no problem. I don't know which is worse, but I don't want to have my convention at either place." "So who passes?" "The one who says what you said to us, when you took this job." I was puzzled. "I don't remember discussing orange juice. What did I say?" LeRoy smiled. "You said, 'That's a real problem. I can help you with it, ... and this is how much it will cost.' So you passed The Orange Juice Test." "But surely you considered more than that? No doubt I could get workers to squeeze oranges at 5 a.m. if I paid them a thousand dollars apiece. But would you be willing to pay that much?"
- We can do it—and this is how much it will cost.
- The Orange Juice Test has saved me hundreds of hours of haggling with the wrong people. I use it in service stations, in the office, in restaurants, and even in choosing hotels. I use it with my clients to treat our mutual optimitis about some plan that promises something for nothing. I also use it when I hire consultants.
- "Oh, I didn't know. I only suspected because it was partly like a forest, partly like a whale, and partly like a snake. It was only a theory, so I figured it would be better to risk one of my peanuts than to cause further damage to your boardroom."
- Repeatedly curing a system that can cure itself will eventually create a system that can't.
- This secret should be branded on the bottom of every parent who ever wiped the nose of a child over the age of four, and on the forehead of any consultant who makes a living solving the same problem for the same client, over and over.
- Make sure they pay you enough so they'll do what you say. Another way to state this is The most important act in consulting is setting the right
- Make sure they pay you enough so they'll do what you say. Another way to state this is The most important act in consulting is setting the right fee.
- The list could go on forever: The theater at which a bomb is playing advertises "plenty of good seats available." The drug company whose product is not as potent as the competition's advertises "more medicine in each capsule." The politician unable to understand legislation becomes "one of the common people, guarding our freedoms from those Harvard professors." The inept manufacturer proudly emphasizes that extra long delivery times "give the customer time to prepare for the new machine," while the company that can't sell its inventory stresses "immediate delivery."
- The purpose of consulting is not to make me look smart, but it's not to make me look dumb either. Consulting is not a test for the consultant, it's a service to the client. Featuring Your Own Failures
- The purpose of consulting is not to make me look smart, but it's not to make me look dumb either. Consulting is not a test for the consultant, it's a service to the client. Featuring Your Own Failures
- such cases, it's better to be open about having really failed, but nothing I said could change her mind. That's one risk of applying The Bolden Rule: People may begin to believe you're
- In such cases, it's better to be open about having really failed, but nothing I said could change her mind. That's one risk of applying The Bolden Rule: People may begin to believe you're perfect (which isn't too bad, as long as you don't start believing it yourself).
- For instance, computer programmers are in the habit of gilding their mistakes by calling them bugs. (I know because I perpetuated this newspeak in my early technical books.) As long as we call mistakes bugs, they sound as if they just crawled spontaneously into our programs, which means we take no more responsibility for them than for other acts of nature.
- Stop using fake terms like "flexibility" and start calling things by their right name. The Gilded
- Stop using fake terms like "flexibility" and start calling things by their right name. The Gilded Consultant
- This rule is so important to consultants that I've given it a special name, Boulding's Backward Basis. Any time you're on a new consulting assignment and need to become acquainted with the situation in a hurry, try using Boulding's Backward Basis. To do so, you may have to slow down and listen to a client's long, boring, irrelevant story.
- When you point a finger at someone, notice where the other three fingers are pointing.
- As a consultant, I could have picked up these signals in the first five minutes, saving myself days of tedious fact-gathering, or at least giving myself a strong clue as to how to organize the facts. But sometimes I'm so afraid of the client and so nervous in the first few minutes that I don't listen carefully enough. All I do is look at the teeth.
- bring in a most attractive sandwich buffet every day. An entire working group will sit down to lunch together. It's a jovial time, but one in which participants make
- In Denmark, for instance, many small firms retain a "lunch lady" to bring in a most attractive sandwich buffet every day. An entire working group will sit down to lunch together. It's a jovial time, but one in which participants make many important decisions about matters of mutual interest. When conducting problem-solving sessions, we noticed that whenever Danes had a decision to make, they would get around a large table and share some kind of food or drink, thus recreating a familiar decision-making environment.
- successful, and who thereby sets himself up to lose bets and look foolish. Wanting to be right all the time makes it especially difficult to notice what's missing in your own thought processes. After losing that embarrassing bet to Judy, however, I decided that I'd have to enlarge my repertoire of "What's missing?" skills, especially with techniques that could be applied to my own thinking. From my work with software designers, I already had discovered one such "What's missing?" tool that I could have applied to solve Judy's riddle, but I didn't recognize it out of context. As a check on the software design process, we teach The Rule of Three: If you can't think of three things that might go wrong with your plans, then there's something wrong with your thinking.
- I suppose I'm not the only one who wants to be smart and successful, and who thereby sets himself up to lose bets and look foolish. Wanting to be right all the time makes it especially difficult to notice what's missing in your own thought processes. After losing that embarrassing bet to Judy, however, I decided that I'd have to enlarge my repertoire of "What's missing?" skills, especially with techniques that could be applied to my own thinking. From my work with software designers, I already had discovered one such "What's missing?" tool that I could have applied to solve Judy's riddle, but I didn't recognize it out of context. As a check on the software design process, we teach The Rule of Three: If you can't think of three things that might go wrong with your plans, then there's something wrong with your thinking.
- "Sometimes when I'm not getting anywhere with the words, I listen to the music." I wasn't exactly sure what she meant, but I resolved to try it after the
- "Sometimes when I'm not getting anywhere with the words, I listen to the music." I wasn't exactly sure what she meant, but I resolved to try it after the
- "Sometimes when I'm not getting anywhere with the words, I listen to the music."
- form. In the Bible, as in other great religious works, you find songs, poems, parables, paradoxes,
- "Well, it's completely unlikely, but there's one thing that will ruin the formula. While you are carrying out the steps, you must not think of a hippopotamus." Changing Awareness
- "Well, it's completely unlikely, but there's one thing that will ruin the formula. While you are carrying out the steps, you must not think of a hippopotamus."
- Pretend you have another meeting to attend following this one. You very much want to attend that meeting, so do everything you can to make this meeting end as quickly as possible.
- primary tool is merely being the person you are, so your most powerful method of helping other people is to help yourself.
- discussion with your clients. • Your primary tool is merely being the person you are, so your most powerful method of helping other people is to help yourself.
- Your primary tool is merely being the person you are, so your most powerful method of helping other people is to help yourself.
- Some of the time, in some places, significant change happens— especially when people aren't working hard at
- To avoid getting pickled, a consultant must not spend too much time with one client. If you can't avoid this, at least break up the time by working with other clients, even for free. As a staff person, you must not stay in one job too long. It's hard to be effective, though, if you're always switching jobs or clients. Change generally takes both time and continued contact, or at least one of the two. The challenge, then, is how to get the client in long, continued contact with some kind of brine, without the consultant even being present.
- It was then that I realized that Roamer had taken up traveling to preserve what he loved most: the farm. And then he had become pickled by traveling. That led me to postulate what I call Roamer's Rule: Struggling
- preserve what he loved most: the farm. And then he had become pickled by traveling. That led me to postulate what I call Roamer's Rule:
- It was then that I realized that Roamer had taken up traveling to preserve what he loved most: the farm. And then he had become pickled by traveling. That led me to postulate what I call Roamer's Rule:
- Another approach to protection against Pandora's Pox is to choose the time and place to put the change into effect. If you're trying your new alarm clock, wait for the weekend, or the day you've nothing on at the office until noon. Better yet, wait for the day you're visiting your in-laws. If you buy a new car—or a used car, for that matter—don't drive it off the lot and onto a 14,000-mile vacation. Take a short trip, even a few short trips, to shake it down. Stay close to the dealer so you can afford the towing bill.
- The approach I use is an extension of the work of Peter Block, who wrote Flawless Consulting: A Guide to Getting Your Expertise Used,
- The first thing I do is pose a riddle. Question: How do you tell an old consultant from a new consultant? Answer: The new consultant complains, "I need more business." The old consultant complains, "I need more time."
- your goal is to have a comfortable business, with just enough work to keep you comfortable, buy a fish market or join the Army. Stay out of consulting.
- The best way to get clients is to have clients.
- consulting business. Everyone likes to go with a winner. There's no better marketing
- The time to look for consulting business is when you have too much consulting business.
- business. Most of the rich ones, however, eventually make a mistake that drops them out of State B and back to State I. For one thing, they're so busy in State B that they forget that State B is the best time to do marketing. The Third Law of Marketing is designed to remind them: Spend at least one day a week getting exposure.
- Many of the poor consultants get discouraged and drop out of the business. Most of the rich ones, however, eventually make a mistake that drops them out of State B and back to State I. For one thing, they're so busy in State B that they forget that State B is the best time to do marketing. The Third Law of Marketing is designed to remind them: Spend at least one day a week getting exposure.
- Clients are more important to you than you can ever be to them.
- They had fallen into the most common of all consulting traps: that of letting one client get such a large share of their business that they could not survive the loss of that client. So, we always advise consultants to follow The Fifth Law of Marketing: Never let a single client have more than one fourth of your business.
- As Arnold crept slowly into the position of having fewer and fewer clients, each client became more critical. When one asked him for more of his time, he knew he should refuse, but he was afraid to lose that client's business altogether. Any time you're afraid to say no to your client, you lose your effectiveness as a consultant. You also lose the client's respect, which increases the chance that you'll eventually lose the business. As my friend and consultant Lynne Grimes says, "To be able to say yes to yourself as a consultant, be able to say no to any of your clients."
- used to be puzzled by the number of calls I got that seemed to come out of the blue. In recent years, I've taken to asking callers how they got my name. It helps me to understand marketing (like the fact that ninety percent of my business now comes directly or indirectly from satisfied clients), but equally important, it also lets me thank the person who recommended me.
- I used to be puzzled by the number of calls I got that seemed to come out of the blue. In recent years, I've taken to asking callers how they got my name. It helps me to understand marketing (like the fact that ninety percent of my business now comes directly or indirectly from satisfied clients), but equally important, it also lets me thank the person who recommended me.
- Spend at least one-fourth of your time doing nothing.
- MARKETING FOR QUALITY Here, then, is a review of the first nine laws of marketing: 1. A consultant can exist in one of two states: State I (idle) or State B (busy). 2. The best way to get clients is to have clients. 3. Spend at least one day a week getting exposure. 4. Clients are more important to you than you can ever be to them. 5. Never let a single client have more than one-fourth of your business. 6. The best marketing tool is a satisfied client. 7. Give away your best ideas.
- MARKETING FOR QUALITY Here, then, is a review of the first nine laws of marketing: 1. A consultant can exist in one of two states: State I (idle) or State B (busy). 2. The best way to get clients is to have clients. 3. Spend at least one day a week getting exposure. 4. Clients are more important to you than you can ever be to them. 5. Never let a single client have more than one-fourth of your business. 6. The best marketing tool is a satisfied client. 7. Give away your best ideas.
- MARKETING FOR QUALITY Here, then, is a review of the first nine laws of marketing: 1. A consultant can exist in one of two states: State I (idle) or State B (busy). 2. The best way to get clients is to have clients. 3. Spend at least one day a week getting exposure. 4. Clients are more important to you than you can ever be to them. 5. Never let a single client have more than one-fourth of your business. 6. The best marketing tool is a satisfied client. 7. Give away your best ideas. 8. It tastes better when you add your own egg. 9. Spend at least one-fourth of your time doing nothing.
- believe you're worth your fee, they'll fill every moment of your time with planned busywork. When you arrive, you'll receive a bland reception that is disappointing in and of itself, but more important, it generally is an indicator that the client will never do anything you suggest. So, in a way, the prospects are right: You aren't worth very much—to them. That's why you shouldn't work for clients who won't pay your regular price.
- But that is not the only problem: Because such prospects don't believe you're worth your fee, they'll fill every moment of your time with planned busywork. When you arrive, you'll receive a bland reception that is disappointing in and of itself, but more important, it generally is an indicator that the client will never do anything you suggest. So, in a way, the prospects are right: You aren't worth very much—to them. That's why you shouldn't work for clients who won't pay your regular price.
- you need the money, don't take
- If you need the money, don't take
- If you need the money, don't take the
- If you need the money, don't take the job.
- For almost any consultant, an investment of a few dollars in a good book on negotiation will pay for itself a hundred times over. In my case, it paid off even more when I gave the book and the responsibility for negotiating my contracts to Judy, my office manager. Judy intrinsically is a better negotiator than I am. Even more important, she finds it easier to put a high value on my services than I do. This exudes an air of confidence to my clients and, incidentally, earns me fees that are ten to twenty percent higher than I would be comfortable asking for myself.
- If the procedure sounds fuzzy, you may want to review the pricing laws: 1. Pricing has many functions, only one of which is the exchange of money. 2. The more they pay you, the more they love you. The less they pay you, the less they respect you. 3. The money is usually the smallest part of the price. 4. Pricing is not a zero-sum game. 5. If you need the money, don't take the job. 6. If they don't like your work, don't take their money. 7. Money is more than price. 8. Price is not a thing; it's a negotiated relationship. 9. Set the price so you won't regret it either way. If you examine these laws, you'll realize that they don't talk about rationality, but emotionality. In other words, underlying all the other laws of pricing is The Tenth Law: All prices are ultimately based on feelings, both yours and
- If the procedure sounds fuzzy, you may want to review the pricing laws: 1. Pricing has many functions, only one of which is the exchange of money. 2. The more they pay you, the more they love you. The less they pay you, the less they respect you. 3. The money is usually the smallest part of the price. 4. Pricing is not a zero-sum game. 5. If you need the money, don't take the job. 6. If they don't like your work, don't take their money. 7. Money is more than price. 8. Price is not a thing; it's a negotiated relationship. 9. Set the price so you won't regret it either way. If you examine these laws, you'll realize that they don't talk about rationality, but emotionality. In other words, underlying all the other laws of pricing is The Tenth Law: All prices are ultimately based on feelings, both yours and theirs.
- People don't tell you when they stop trusting you.
- Getting hidden feelings out in the open is the most straightforward thing I can do to increase trust. In both of these cases, it allowed me to move quickly to the organization's most important problems.
- share a common approach: I have shifted the focus away from the third party and brought the manager's reasoning into focus. Why? First of all, forbidding
- Although the situations seem entirely opposite, my two replies share a common approach: I have shifted the focus away from the third party and brought the manager's reasoning into focus. Why? First of all, forbidding anything is a very strong action, indicating that the boss has intense feelings somehow connected with the employee.
- First, get it in writing. Second, get it in writing. Third, get it in writing.
- Get it in writing, but depend on trust.
- So, make sure that your ideas are of the best quality. Do whatever you can to get the best ideas before you invest a lot of money cultivating them.
- happen to get them, rather than the moment that's right for germination.
- Too often, consultants broadcast their ideas the moment they happen to get them, rather than the moment that's right for germination. 4. The plants
- Too often, consultants broadcast their ideas the moment they happen to get them, rather than the moment that's right for germination.
- Too many resources poured into a young idea produces lots of action, but few results. Ideas, like plants, thrive on a certain amount of struggle.
- Adams, James L.Conceptual Blockbusting. San Francisco: W.H. Freeman, 1974.
- Others, and Resolve Conflicts. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall, 1979. No
- Another, more recent, but equally down-to-earth book is Bolton, Robert. People Skills: How to Assert Yourself, Listen to Others, and Resolve Conflicts. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall, 1979.
