# Master of Change
- Non-dual thinking recognizes that the world is complex, that much is nuanced, and that truth is often found in paradox: not this or that, but this and that. Non-dual thinking is an important, albeit spectacularly underused, concept in many facets of life, including our subject matter here. As such, it will come up repeatedly throughout this book.
- The Sanskrit word viparinama-dukkha is translated roughly as “the dissatisfaction that results from clinging amidst change.” The entirety of Buddhist philosophy is about lessening this dissatisfaction by learning to accept and work with impermanence.
- Science shows that when you chronically fight change,7 your body releases the stress hormone cortisol, which is associated with metabolic syndrome, insomnia, inflammation, muscle wasting, and countless other ailments. Perhaps the one thing that hasn’t changed in the past 2,500 years is just how hard change is—and how futile and unhealthy, for mind and body alike, resisting it can
- Hard as it may be at first, if we can bring ourselves to answer plainly, we’ll lift an enormous weight off our shoulders: that of resistance, denial, and delusion. With that weight lifted, we can enter into conversation with change instead of having it be something that is happening to us. This shift is empowering. It makes us more active participants in our own lives, and it allows us to shape our stories.
- Then someone makes a discovery that upends the established way of thinking, which often leads to a crisis. A period of confusion and unrest ensues—the societal equivalent of wearing the Hanover inverted goggles for the first time—until finally a new paradigm is reached. Essentially, Kuhn depicts scientific progress as a cycle of order, disorder, and reorder.
- Swaths of psychological research show that our happiness in any given moment is a function of our reality minus our expectations.
- First, a definition: tragic optimism is the ability to maintain hope and find meaning in life despite its inescapable pain, loss, and suffering. It is about acknowledging, accepting, and expecting that life will contain hardship, that sometimes impermanence hurts, and then trudging forward with a positive attitude nonetheless.
- They experienced the same levels13 of sadness, stress, and grief as the less resilient people, but they were able to hold room for emotions like love and gratitude too.
- Well, this is what is happening now, so I will focus on what I can control, try not to obsess over what I can’t, and do the best I can. I’ve faced other challenges and other seasons of doubt and despair, and I’ve come out the other side.
- A large body of research shows that when there is too great a fusion between one’s identity and their pursuit, then anxiety, depression, and burnout frequently result. This is especially true1 during periods of change and transition, when one’s dominant sense of identity feels at risk. World-class sport may be an extreme example, but it is a pattern that holds true in all lines of work and all walks of life: if you want to be excellent and experience something fully, then you’ve got to go all in, but only to a point. If your identity becomes too enmeshed2 in any one concept or endeavor—be it your age, how you look in the mirror, a relationship, or your career—then you are likely to face significant distress when things change, which, for better or worse, they always do.
