# MatthewBCrawfordTheWorldBeyondYourHeadOnBecominganIndividualinanAgeofDistractionFarrarStrausandGiroux
- to kill and being unable to escape the chattering of CNN. The audio may
- We have all had the experience of sitting in an airport with an hour to kill and being unable to escape the chattering of CNN. The audio may be turned off, but if the TV is within view, I, for one, find it impossible not to look at it. The introduction of novelty into one’s field of view commands what the cognitive psychologists call an orienting response (an important evolutionary adaptation in a world of predators):
- Or do we? Silence is now offered as a luxury good. In the business-class lounge at Charles de Gaulle airport, what you hear is the occasional tinkling of a spoon against china. There are no advertisements on the walls, and no TVs. This silence, more than any other feature of the space, is what makes it feel genuinely luxurious. When you step inside and the automatic airtight doors whoosh shut behind you, the difference is nearly tactile, like slipping out of haircloth into satin. Your brow unfurrows itself, your neck muscles relax; after twenty minutes you no longer feel exhausted. The hassle lifts.
- The much-discussed decline of the middle class in recent decades, and the ever greater concentration of wealth in a shrinking elite, may have something to do with the ever more aggressive appropriations of the attentional commons that we have allowed to take place. This becomes especially pertinent
- The much-discussed decline of the middle class in recent decades, and the ever greater concentration of wealth in a shrinking elite, may have something to do with the ever more aggressive appropriations of the attentional commons that we have allowed to take place.
- on distracted driving is that, while having a cell phone conversation impairs driving ability, having a conversation with someone present in the car does not. A person who is present can cooperate by modulating the conversation in response to the demands of the driving situation.9 For example, if the weather is bad he tends to be quiet. A passenger acts as another pair of eyes on the situation he inhabits with the driver, and tends to improve a driver’s ability to notice and quickly respond to out-of-the-ordinary challenges.
- One of the more interesting findings to come out of the research on distracted driving is that, while having a cell phone conversation impairs driving ability, having a conversation with someone present in the car does not. A person who is present can cooperate by modulating the conversation in response to the demands of the driving situation.9 For example, if the weather is bad he tends to be quiet. A passenger acts as another pair of eyes on the situation he inhabits with the driver, and tends to improve a driver’s ability to notice and quickly respond to out-of-the-ordinary challenges.
- Distractibility might be regarded as the mental equivalent of obesity. The palatability of
- Distractibility might be regarded as the mental equivalent of obesity.
- But however inept we may be at it, it remains true that we keep trying to “make ourselves, and our proper aspirations, articulate to ourselves,” as the philosopher Talbot Brewer has written.
- The activities I have in mind are skilled practices.
