# ModernSoftwareEngineeringDoingWhatWorkstoBuildBetterSoftwareFaster
- Alternatively, if we look at organizations that are seen as high performers, then there are common behaviors, such as continuous delivery and being organized into small teams, that they share.
- and the commercial outcome for the company that practices it. It also goes on to dispel a commonly held belief that “you can have either speed or quality but not both.” This is simply not true. Speed and quality are clearly correlated in the data from this research. The route to speed is high-quality software, the route to high-quality software is speed of feedback, and the route to both is great engineering.
- It also goes on to dispel a commonly held belief that “you can have either speed or quality but not both.” This is simply not true. Speed and quality are clearly correlated in the data from this research. The route to speed is high-quality software, the route to high-quality software is speed of feedback, and the route to both is great engineering.
- Stability is tracked by the following: • Change Failure Rate: The rate at which a change introduces a defect at a particular point in the process • Recovery Failure Time: How long to recover from a failure at a particular point in the process
- Throughput is tracked by the following: • Lead Time: A measure of the efficiency of the development process. How long for a single-line change to go from “idea” to “working software”? • Frequency: A measure of speed. How often are changes deployed into production?
- Modularity • Cohesion • Separation of concerns • Information hiding/abstraction • Coupling
- When making a choice, we should ask ourselves, “does this increase the quality of the software that we create?” measured by the metrics of stability. Or “does this increase the efficiency with which we create software of that quality” measured by throughput.
- There were some common themes in these teams. They tended to be small. The developers were close to the users of their software. They tried ideas quickly and changed tack when things didn’t work as they expected. This was revolutionary stuff during this period—so revolutionary in fact that many of these teams essentially operated in stealth mode, where the organization where they worked applied heavy-weight processes that slowed them down.
- Industry data says that for the best software companies in the world, two-thirds of their ideas produce zero or negative value.
- We must learn to have the confidence to begin work precisely when we don’t yet know the answers and when we don’t know how much work will be involved. This is disquieting for some people and for some organizations, but it is only the same as the reality of much of the human experience. When a business starts out on a new venture, they don’t really know when, or even whether, it will be a success. They don’t know how many people will like their ideas and whether they will be willing to pay for them.
