# Nick Maggiulli  Just Keep Buying Proven ways to save money and build your wealthHarriman House
- “We buy stocks so we can eat well, but we buy bonds so we can sleep well.”
- This was the moment when I realized that everything was going to be okay. Even as the world was crumbling all around me, somehow, the flower guy was still there trying to sell his flowers.   Something about that moment stuck with me. Maybe it was because of how audacious it seemed. Why would I need flowers at a time like this? I need canned goods and toilet paper.   But it wasn’t audacious. It was a moment of normalcy. If the flower guy still has hope, why shouldn’t I? I never told anyone about this private realization, but it lifted my spirits when I needed it most.
- This is why buying during this crisis was such a no-brainer. Even in the scenario where the market took half a decade to recover, you would still earn an 8% return while you waited.
- “Fear has a greater grasp on human action than does the impressive weight of historical evidence.”   It’s my favorite investing quote of all time and the only one fitting enough to end this chapter. I can only hope that it provides you with the mental fortitude to just keep buying the next time there’s blood in the streets.
- However, on a completely objective basis, Blankfein is in the top 0.01% of U.S. households, or the 1% of the 1%. According to Saez and Zucman, the top 0.01% of U.S. households (~16,000 families) had a net worth of at least $111 million in 2012.¹⁰⁰ Even if you adjust for the increase in asset prices since 2012, Blankfein would easily be in the top 0.01%.   But it’s not just Blankfein who has this perception problem. Most people at the upper end of the income spectrum think they are less well off than they actually are.   For example, research in The Review of Economics and Statistics illustrates that most households in the upper half of the income spectrum don’t realize how good they have it.¹⁰¹ As the following chart illustrates, households above the 50th percentile in income tend to underestimate how well they are doing relative to others.
