# Peter Pfitzinger Scott Douglas  Advanced Marathoning  2nd EditionHuman Kinetics
- When your hamstrings tighten 23 miles (37 km) into the race, for example, it helps to have experienced a similar feeling in training—you’ll know you can shorten your stride a few inches, concentrate on maintaining your leg turnover, and keep going. More generally, you’ll have experienced overcoming the sometimes overwhelming desire to do anything but continue to run.
- Experience suggests that steadily building your long runs to 21 or 22 miles (34 or 35 km) will maximize your chances of reaching the marathon in top shape while remaining healthy. Experienced marathoners who are not highly injury prone should include one run of 24 miles (39 km) in their preparation.
- If you use a heart monitor, your long-run pace should be roughly in the range of 74 to 84 percent of maximal heart rate
- Nancy Clark’s Sports Nutrition Guidebook and Endurance Sports Nutrition by Suzanne Girard Eberle are excellent and extensive resources for more information on nutrition for endurance
- Focusing on your splits gives you an immediate goal to concentrate on. The ability to do a bit of adding in your head while running is a helpful skill. If you’re supposed to be running 5:40 per mile, and there are markers every mile during the marathon, then just add 6:00 to your previous mile split and subtract 20 seconds to calculate what your next split should be. If you’re 5 seconds too slow, don’t try to make up the lost 5 seconds during the next mile; add 5:40 again as your target to get yourself back on track. By focusing on these incremental goals along the way, you’ll prevent a large drift
- If you’ve carbohydrate loaded, this shouldn’t start to affect you until well past the 20-mile (32 km) mark. Taking in carbohydrate during the race and particularly between miles 13 and 20 (km 21 and 32), however, will help ensure that you stay alert and think clearly throughout the race.
- During these final 6 miles and 385 yards (10 km), you get to dig deep and use up any energy that you have left. This is what the marathon is all about. This is the stretch that poorly prepared marathoners fear and well-prepared marathoners relish.
- If you’re struggling a bit toward the end, picture yourself finishing a run on your favorite training loop so that the remaining distance seems more manageable.
