# Recommender Systems
- This similarity function is useful in making predictions for items (documents) in which the user preference is unknown. For each document in , its k-nearest neighbors in are determined using the cosine similarity function. The average value of the rating for the k neighbors of each item in is determined. This average value is the predicted rating for the corresponding item in . An additional heuristic enhancement is that one can weight each rating with the similarity value. In cases where ratings are treated as categorical values, the number of votes for each value of the rating is determined, and the rating value with the largest frequency is predicted. The documents in are then ranked based on the predicted value of the rating, and the top items are recommended to the user.
- The main challenge with the use of this approach is its high computational complexity. Note that the nearest neighbor of each document in needs to be determined, and the time required for each nearest neighbor determination is linear to the size
- The main challenge with the use of this approach is its high computational complexity. Note that the nearest neighbor of each document in needs to be determined, and the time required for each nearest neighbor determination is linear to the size
- The main challenge with the use of this approach is its high computational complexity. Note that the nearest neighbor of each document in needs to be determined, and the time required for each nearest neighbor determination is linear to the size of
- The main challenge with the use of this approach is its high computational complexity. Note that the nearest neighbor of each document in needs to be determined, and the time required for each nearest neighbor determination is linear to the size of
- The main challenge with the use of this approach is its high computational complexity. Note that the nearest neighbor of each document in needs to be determined, and the time required for each nearest neighbor determination is linear to the size of . Therefore, the computational complexity is equal to
- For the case of high-dimensional data, such as text, it has been observed that linear support vector machines are sufficient. For such cases, specialized methods with linear performance [283] have been designed. Although neural networks [87] can be used for building arbitrarily complex models, they are not advisable when the amount of available data is small. This is because neural networks are sensitive to the noise in the underlying data, and they can overfit the training data when its size is small.
- How can one handle such customization and paucity of ratings? Knowledge-based recommender systems rely on explicitly soliciting user requirements for such items.
- Customers want to explicitly specify their requirements. Therefore, interactivity is a crucial component of such systems. Note that collaborative and content-based systems do not allow this type of detailed feedback.
- In some domains, such as computers, the ratings may be time-sensitive. The ratings on an old car or computer are not very useful for recommendations because they evolve with changing product availability and corresponding user requirements.
- Table 5.1  The conceptual goals of various recommender systems Approach Conceptual Goal Input Collaborative Give me recommendations based on a collaborative approach User ratings +   that leverages the ratings and actions of my peers/myself. community ratings Content- Give me recommendations based on the content (attributes) User ratings + based I have favored in my past ratings and actions. item attributes Knowledge- Give me recommendations based on my explicit specification User specification + based of the kind of content (attributes) I want. item attributes +     domain knowledge
