# Run Like a Pro
- The answer will very likely be yes, and if you follow through on the offer (please don’t), you’ll end up on a program that’s heavy on burpees and light on long runs, which will set you up for an ugly encounter with “the wall” on race day.
- Emig and Peltonen reported that their data showed not only a clear correlation between running volume and performance across the subject population but also a strong association between running volume and performance within individual runners.
- I’ll give you an example. Relatively few professional runners monitor their heart rate regularly in training. When I mention this to the runners I coach, they are often surprised. I’m not suggesting that you immediately chuck your heart rate monitor (supposing you have one) or put it up for sale on eBay. I’m just underscoring the point that you can’t very well do what the pros do if you don’t even know what the pros do. And few nonelite runners know much about what the pros do (other than that they run one-hundred-plus miles per week!).
- For example, if you built up to forty-five miles per week in preparing for your last marathon, consider building up to fifty miles in preparation for the next marathon.
- Now that sponsorships represent the main income source for pro runners, they not only can afford to compete infrequently but also insist on it, because what they’re really being paid for is not to race but to race well, and frequent racing is detrimental to performance.
- Some runners don’t care about performing at their peak level in every race, and I get that. Chasing PBs isn’t the only valid reason for pinning a bib to your singlet. Just don’t try to have it both ways. Make a conscious choice either to race sparingly and successfully like the pros or to race often with less success if that’s your preference during a particular phase of your running journey.
- The norm among pro runners is to get relative rest in the form of a single, short recovery run once a week and absolute rest in the form of a day off once every three or four weeks or as needed.
- As I now so often say, “It’s about being ready on the day.”
- science tells us there are three major benefits of high-volume training: greater fitness, better efficiency, and heightened durability. Let’s take a closer look at each of these.
- This is evidenced by the fact that elite athletes in all endurance disciplines who train at very high volume but with only a small fraction of their training at high intensity score much higher on VO2max tests than elite athletes in sports like ice hockey and boxing, who typically do a lot less total cardiovascular training but with greater emphasis on high intensity.
- more she stimulates her genes to boost her aerobic capacity, and no runner experiences more glycogen flux than one who eats plenty of carbs, rests adequately, and runs a lot, as the pros do.
- higher training volumes were closely linked to better endurance.
- TABLE 3.2 PROVEN WEEKLY TRAINING STRUCTURES OPTION A—SIX TO SEVEN RUNS PER WEEK   Easy Run or Day Off    Hard Run    Easy Run    Easy Run    Hard Run    Easy Run    Long/Hard Run  OPTION B—NINE RUNS PER WEEK   A.M.    Easy Run    Hard Run    Easy Run    Easy Run    Hard Run    Easy Run    Long/Hard Run    P.M.       Easy Run          Easy Run        OPTION C—TWELVE RUNS PER WEEK   A.M.    Easy Run    Hard Run    Easy Run    Easy Run    Hard Run    Easy Run    Long/Hard Run    P.M.       Easy Run    Easy Run    Easy Run    Easy Run    Easy Run 
- In theory, there are dozens of possible structures you could adopt, but in practice, coaches have found that a handful of routines tend to work best for the vast majority of improvement-seeking runners who are willing and able to set their volume ceiling at least as high as the Seven-Hour Standard. These are shown in Table 3.2.
- The best cross-training activities for runners are those that closely simulate running but without the impact. These include indoor and outdoor bicycling, elliptical running, uphill treadmill walking, cross-country skiing, and Meb’s choice, outdoor elliptical biking.
- The lesson I learned and wish to pass on to you is that weekly mileage is personal. There’s no online algorithm that will, based on a few bits of input, tell you the exact right amount of running to do. This is something you must discover for yourself over time via classic trial and error, and it can, and should, be adjusted at various points in your running life. The ultimate goal, as we know from the pros, is to find your personal “sweet spot,” as Matt calls it—yours and yours alone.
- The consistent 80/20 intensity balance noted in this group of world-class runners is by no means unusual. A number of other studies have yielded similar findings. In 2003, for example, French exercise physiologist Véronique Billat reported that elite Kenyan runners did about 85 percent of their training below the lactate threshold, the intensity at which lactate, an intermediate product of aerobic metabolism, begins to accumulate in the blood, and which falls between 85 and 90 percent of maximum heart rate in the fittest athletes.
- Chances are you’ve never run a six-minute time trial, which means you might mess up the pacing in your first attempt, either starting too slow and realizing you have a lot of gas left in the tank near the end or (more likely) starting too aggressively and hitting a wall. If this happens, just wait forty-eight hours or so and try again. Although the six-minute time trial is kind of painful, it’s short enough that it doesn’t take a lot out of a runner and can be repeated fairly frequently.
- This is important, because if spending too much time at moderate intensity is the biggest mistake nonelite runners make in their training, not spending enough time at high intensity is the second biggest.
- nonelite runners run a little too fast in their easy runs,
- is, in other words, about gaining a more and more refined sense of what eight minutes and twenty-two seconds per mile (or whatever) feels like, and of what your perceived effort should be when you’re, say, four kilometers into a 10K race. The Guess Your Split game is a simple and effective way of pushing this calibration process forward.
- Any running you do after you’ve started slowing down involuntarily offers no benefit. Your body can absorb only so much training stimulus in any single run.
- Beyond that point, you’re no longer training, you’re just punishing yourself.
- Even if this damage doesn’t result in plantar fasciitis or runner’s knee or some other overuse condition, it will leave you less ready for the next run.
- To play, all you need to do is make sure the final mile of your long run is faster than any preceding mile.
- The Fastest Mile Last Rule is a pacing game that teaches runners to distribute their effort more effectively over longer distances. As with Guess Your Split, the name of this particular game is also its one and only rule. To play, all you need to do is make sure the final mile of your long run is faster than any preceding mile.
- If you’re a metric runner, the Fastest Kilometer Last Rule, while not as catchy, works just as well.
- After testing various formats on the athletes I coach, I’ve come up with three that I like especially. The introductory version features accelerations of eleven and three minutes, each followed by a lengthy walk-to-jog recovery (trust me, you’ll need it); the intermediate level includes accelerations of eleven and six minutes; and the advanced format has all three accelerations (eleven, six, and three minutes). These workouts are incorporated into some of the training plans presented later in the book.
- My own view is that the proper way to truly maximize the benefit of your low-intensity runs is to emulate the pros by allowing your pace to vary widely between easy runs, and even within them.
- “When you’re fit, you’re fit.”
- Proof of this comes from a series of studies led by Linda Schücker of the University of Münster, who has found that runners move less efficiently when asked to think about their movements while running than when asked to focus their attention externally.
- In a 2017 paper published in Sport, Exercise, and Performance Psychology, for example, British researchers showed that neural activity in brain areas associated with conscious processing decreased while performance improved in novice golfers who went through a sequence of three putting practice sessions.
- Whereas golfers seek to automate such learned techniques so that they can execute them almost unconsciously, runners seek (or should seek) to run with a “quiet brain” because the less active the brain is, the easier running at any given pace feels, and the longer that pace can be sustained. And runners don’t need help to learn how to run with a quiet brain.
- The single most effective way to become a more skillful runner, therefore, is just to run. By doing nothing more than putting one foot in front of the other, over and over, you will move closer and closer to achieving your optimal stride. There is no way to anticipate what this stride will look like, and I can guarantee it won’t look exactly like any other runner’s optimal stride. In fact, what your stride looks like doesn’t really matter, and in this sense the term running form isn’t even appropriate. It’s not good form you’re truly after but running skill, which comes from gradually discovering through unconscious experimentation how to run with a quiet brain.
- Clearly, you can’t judge the “book” of running skill by the “cover” of running form!
- There are many good form drills to choose from, but these six will get you started. You can find video demonstrations of them on the 80/20 Endurance YouTube channel.
- A springy runner is able to stiffen their legs on impact and thereby stabilize the joints, minimizing the energy lost through wobbling at the ankle, knee, hip, and pelvis. The results are less ground contact time and better running economy.
- Now, unfortunately we cannot all work with AJ and Wes, two of the best in the business. But you can find professionals in your own neck of the woods. If it’s economically feasible for you, you will not regret the investment. Luckily, it’s not a case of either/or. Everything we do contributes. Your running technique is uniquely yours, and always will be. It can get better, but that improvement takes time and comes from a variety of areas—none of which should be taken for granted, and all of which require an acknowledgment that perfection is not the goal; it is movement toward perfection that we pursue.
- The best words to describe their overall way of living are simple and slow.
- The best words to describe their overall way of living are simple and slow. When they’re not running, they are generally relaxing. They get plenty of sleep, eat natural foods, and are largely unburdened by modern stressors—such as rush hour, media overload, and consumerism—affecting many denizens of wealthier societies.
- 6:00 a.m.—Run 7:15 a.m.—Breakfast 8:30 a.m.—Rest/nap 10:30 a.m.—Leisure (e.g., board games) 1:00 p.m.—Lunch 2:00 p.m.—Chores/errands 4:30 p.m.—Run 5:00 p.m.—Snack 5:30 p.m.—Rest 8:00 p.m.—Dinner 9:00 p.m.—Bed
- Instead, your focus should be on the basics of rest, sleep, nutrition, and stress management, just as it is for most professional runners, and for the runners of East Africa especially.
- but even pro runners in type A societies like ours try to spend the majority of their non-training time just chilling.
- One example is 2016 US Olympian Jared Ward, who works as a statistics instructor at Brigham Young University and is raising four children with his wife,
- One example is 2016 US Olympian Jared Ward, who works as a statistics instructor at Brigham Young University and is raising four children with his wife, Erica.
- The key is to find some time for true relaxation every day. Carving out at least twenty minutes for an activity (or form of inactivity) that you enjoy and makes you feel relaxed will give you more recovery benefit than an hour or more of, say, arguing about politics on social media.
- Other good options for relaxation include meditation, reading, journaling, soaking in the tub, having a pleasant conversation with your spouse, and, yes, engaging in relaxing recovery rituals such as wearing progression boots, even though the technologies involved offer little or no recovery benefit in themselves.
- chapter 3, I introduced the concepts of acute training load (or ATL), which is the combined average volume and intensity of training over the previous week, and chronic training load (or CTL), which is the combined average volume and intensity of training over the past four weeks. Building fitness requires that your ATL exceed your CTL at most times.
- getting enough recovery to avoid injury and burnout requires that your ATL not exceed your CTL by more than about 10 percent.
- in which your training load increases for two to three weeks and then drops down for one week.
- This “two or three steps forward, one step back” approach to modulating your training load is how the pros have it both ways: getting fitter while avoiding injury and burnout.
- The most effective way to keep your acute training load in the optimal zone of 101 to 110 percent of your chronic training load is to practice step cycles, in which your training load increases for two to three weeks and then drops down for one week. This “two or three steps forward, one step back” approach to modulating your training load is how the pros have it both ways: getting fitter while avoiding injury and burnout.
- your total training time is up and the fraction of that time spent at higher intensities is the same compared to last week, or if your total training time is the same and the fraction of that time spent at higher intensities is up, then your training load has increased. If the opposite of either of these scenarios is true, your training load has decreased.
- If your total training time is up and the fraction of that time spent at higher intensities is the same compared to last week, or if your total training time is the same and the fraction of that time spent at higher intensities is up, then your training load has increased. If the opposite of either of these scenarios is true, your training load has decreased.
- One of the biggest myths about professional runners is that they sleep a lot. Just kidding. Pro runners really do sleep
- One of the biggest myths about professional runners is that they sleep a lot. Just kidding. Pro runners really do sleep a lot!
- You needn’t get too scientific about the composition of your post-run meals and snacks either, as was demonstrated by a famous 2015 study in which a fast-food meal eaten after an intense cycling session was found to have the same effect on performance in a subsequent time trial as a mixture of energy bars and specially formulated recovery beverages. This does not mean you should start eating cheeseburgers after runs, as there are other factors to consider, including your long-term health, but it does underscore the point that everyday foods will do the trick.
- Eat everything. Eat quality. Eat carb-centered. Eat enough. Eat individually.
- BREAKFAST Whole-grain granola Plain Greek yogurt Fresh raspberries Coffee SNACK Banana and sugar-free peanut butter LUNCH Brown rice Stir-fried vegetables Tofu Tomato juice SNACK Avocado toast DINNER Broiled salmon Steamed broccoli florets Roasted red potatoes White wine Dark chocolate
- A somewhat fancier, research-backed protocol entails doing a normally fueled high-intensity interval run in the afternoon, eating a very low-carb dinner afterward, sleeping, and then doing an easy run on an empty stomach first thing in the morning.
- Except on special occasions, don’t start eating a meal or snack until you are experiencing physical hunger cues such as a hollow feeling or rumbling in the stomach.
- Avoid automatically finishing the food that’s in front of you (especially at restaurants and other places where you don’t control how much you’re served); also avoid eating something just because it’s there.
- Consider downloading an app such as the Am I Hungry? Virtual Coach to assist you in the process of improving your appetite awareness.
- The lesson from both science and the real world is clear: if you want to run like a pro, you need to eat enough—not just every day but throughout the day!
- P EOPLE WHO ACHIEVE HIGH levels of success in business, military service, science, and other professional fields tend to possess certain mental skills and traits beyond a natural inclination. To truly excel in these and other fields, research shows, it’s not enough to have a knack for business, military service, science, or whatever. One must also be a good decision maker, have solid people skills, be able to regulate emotions effectively, and more.
- Such findings are consistent with my own personal observations of elite athletes. Whenever someone asks what surprised me the most about the professional runners I trained with as an honorary member of NAZ Elite, I point to my head. Simply put, these young men and women had their act together, making good decisions under pressure with striking consistency. I don’t mean to suggest that nonelite runners don’t have their act together, but in my experience there’s an unmistakable difference in the psychologies of the two groups, broadly speaking. This disparity is most noticeable in the context of commonly faced challenges such as bad workouts and injuries, which pro runners tend to deal with more effectively than do the rest of us.
- it is mainly by maintaining a process focus rather than an outcome focus.
- they keep their attention focused on getting fitter.
- Examples of process goals are keeping your heart rate below 140 beats per minute throughout all your easy runs; finding
- Examples of process goals are keeping your heart rate below 140 beats per minute throughout all your easy runs; finding time for drills twice a week every week, no excuses; increasing your average weekly mileage by 10 percent in your next training cycle; and squeezing in at least one trail run per week.
- Another mantra you can use to the same effect is “Check the box.” Not every run can be, or needs to be, a huge breakthrough. Even the most successful training cycles—ones that culminate in Olympic medals and national records—are made up mostly of check-the-box type runs. I encourage you to use mantras like these to keep your mind on now as you make your way through the training process.
- If you’re a runner who struggles to shake off bad workouts, get in the habit of talking them through with a coach or fellow runner.
- Some runners, including the pros (who wouldn’t be pros otherwise), have a higher tolerance for this sort of discomfort than others do. Those who maintain a pain-only-hurts attitude toward their suffering have the highest tolerance for it and consequently get the most out of the physical fitness they bring to each race.
- “One thing about racing is that it hurts. You better accept that from the beginning or you’re not going anywhere.”
- Instead of thinking I hate this at such moments, think I’ve been here before and gotten through it. This is nothing new.
- Among the most commonly cited responses to discomfort were adjusting pace, trying to relax, and “chunking” distance or time (i.e., mentally dividing a run into smaller segments to make the distance seem more manageable).
- In everyday life, just about any form of deferred gratification you can think of will strengthen the underlying mechanism, which is centered in a part of the brain called the anterior cingulate cortex. An example from my own life is creating a daily to-do list and tackling the item I dread most first, the item I’m most looking forward to last. In training, things like exercising to failure (e.g., holding a wall squat as long as you can) and the aforementioned mental trick of chunking distance or time when you’re running hard will have the same effect.
- your shoe spontaneously falls apart during a marathon, for instance (as happened to Eliud Kipchoge during the 2015 Berlin Marathon), you don’t have to panic; you can keep calm and press on (as Eliud did, ultimately winning the race).
- Ryan Hall made a conscious choice to race the 2010 Boston Marathon with joy, and it helped him achieve a fourth-place, 2:08:40 performance. The fact that the fastest American-born marathoner in history chose to race happy is all the proof we need that having fun and performing at the highest level are not mutually incompatible.
- “You can go deeper, Scott. You can take more.”
