# RussRobertsWildProblemsAGuidetotheDecisionsThatDefineUsPortfolio
- Which “you” should you consider when deciding what’s best for you? The current you or the you you will become? It sounds silly, but it’s not that
- Which “you” should you consider when deciding what’s best for you? The current you or the you you will become?
- he’ll be sharing his life with another person other than the possible demands on his time and where he might have to live. All the pluses and minuses are related to his own feelings and what he expects to experience. You might think that’s reasonable—of course what happens to him is what matters.
- he’ll be sharing his life with another person other than the possible demands on his
- And notice there is almost nothing in Darwin’s list that suggests he’ll be sharing his life with another person other than the possible demands on his time and where he might have to live. All the pluses and minuses are related to his own feelings and what he expects to experience. You might think that’s reasonable—of course what happens to him is what matters.
- In the poem, Hein says that when you face a dilemma and can’t decide what to do, flip a penny in the air. Not as the way to make the decision, but as the way to discover “what you’re hoping,” in Hein’s words. While the penny is spinning, you’ll sense what you want the outcome to be. In other words—follow your impulsive reaction—your heart, maybe, or your gut, but not your mind. Huh? What kind of advice is this coming from a mathematician and scientist?
- an emotional reaction that tells you what you really want—like tossing a coin, where you think you don’t have a preference, but when you see how the flip came out you feel disappointed, and that tells you that you really did have a preference. But why would a rational person want to evoke
- think one of the values of those checklists is that they stimulate an emotional reaction that tells you what you really want—like tossing a coin, where you think you don’t have a preference, but when you see how the flip came out you feel disappointed, and that tells you that you really did have a preference.
- experience, life is something like a day at a giant amusement park where you have a fixed amount of money to spend on a finite number of rides. Because your income is finite, it isn’t feasible to have or do everything you desire. Rationally, you seek out the rides that you enjoy and avoid the ones you don’t. You ride some more than once as long as the pleasure you get from that extra time remains higher than the pleasure you might get from riding a different ride for the first time.
- In Bentham’s view and in the economist’s view of the human experience, life is something like a day at a giant amusement park where you have a fixed amount of money to spend on a finite number of rides. Because your income is finite, it isn’t feasible to have or do everything you desire. Rationally, you seek out the rides that you enjoy and avoid the ones you don’t. You ride some more than once as long as the pleasure you get from that extra time remains higher than the pleasure you might get from riding a different ride for the first time. The
- In Bentham’s view and in the economist’s view of the human experience, life is something like a day at a giant amusement park where you have a fixed amount of money to spend on a finite number of rides. Because your income is finite, it isn’t feasible to have or do everything you desire. Rationally, you seek out the rides that you enjoy and avoid the ones you don’t. You ride some more than once as long as the pleasure you get from that extra time remains higher than the pleasure you might get from riding a different ride for the first time.
- You have a child because it makes your entire life richer even if it makes your bank account poorer. The choices we make in the face of wild
- You have a child because it makes your entire life richer even if it makes your bank account poorer.
- Gilbert argues that all that matters is our happiness as we experience it or fail to experience it over our lifetime. Gilbert imagines
- Gilbert argues that all that matters is our happiness as we experience it or fail to experience it over our lifetime.
- Where we choose to live is about more than which place has better weather, better job opportunities, better options for day trips, better local food, and so on. Where we live is about who we are and not just what we experience.
- Once rejected, they move on to other options and they are unavailable for hiring. If Penelope faces these same assumptions, there is an algorithm for her to follow if she wants to maximize her chance of marrying the best man among the 108 suitors. Interview 37 percent of the suitors—in this case, that amounts to forty interviews. Penelope won’t marry any of these forty. These interviews are a way to learn about the quality of what Ithaka has to offer in the way of husbands. Note the best one of the forty. Suppose the best of the first forty turns out to be Elatus. You don’t marry Elatus—after all, you’ve turned him down so he’s lost to you. But you use Elatus as a measuring stick—the benchmark—for the remaining sixty-eight. As soon as you reach someone better than Elatus, you marry him. There’s a chance that Elatus is the best candidate. Then none of the sixty-eight remaining candidates surpasses him. You’re then stuck with the 108th suitor. In that case, Penelope doesn’t get the best husband. Assuming that she meets suitors in random order, the expected quality of the last man to be interviewed would be the average quality of the group. But of course, in actuality, the 108th man could be quite horrific. Expected well-being ex ante and actual well-being ex post can be very different. What’s impressive is that this strategy has a surprisingly high chance of giving Penelope the best among the bunch. How high? If she follows this strategy, her odds of getting the best husband are 37 percent. Not bad.
- for her to follow if she wants to maximize her chance of marrying the best man among the 108 suitors. Interview 37 percent of the suitors—in this case, that amounts to forty interviews. Penelope won’t marry any of these forty. These interviews are a way to learn about the quality of what Ithaka has to offer in the way of husbands. Note the best one of the forty. Suppose the best of the first forty turns out to be Elatus. You don’t marry Elatus—after all, you’ve turned him down so he’s lost to you. But you use Elatus as a measuring stick—the benchmark—for the remaining sixty-eight. As soon as you reach someone better than Elatus, you marry him. There’s a chance that Elatus is the best candidate. Then none of the sixty-eight remaining candidates surpasses him. You’re then stuck with the 108th suitor. In that case, Penelope doesn’t get the best husband. Assuming that she meets suitors in random order, the expected quality of the last man to be interviewed would be the average quality of the group. But of course, in actuality, the 108th man could be quite horrific. Expected well-being ex ante and actual well-being ex post can be very different. What’s impressive is that this strategy has a surprisingly high chance of giving Penelope the best among the bunch. How high? If she follows this strategy, her odds of getting the best husband are 37 percent. Not bad.
- roughly 2.71828 . . . where the ellipsis represents an infinite number of digits after the decimal point. If you interview n/e suitors (where n is the number of suitors—in Penelope’s case, 108) and pick the first one who exceeds your benchmark, your Elatus, the odds of getting the best candidate among the n suitors is 1/e, which comes to 37 percent. Why e should figure into this calculation is one of those elegant mysteries of mathematics. How beautiful is that?
- with. If you can, marry your best friend, someone you can talk to and someone you can stay quiet with.
- No guidebook, not even the best one, can tell you who to travel with. If you can, marry your best friend, someone you can talk to and someone you can stay quiet with. Someone who has a good heart and shares your view of what’s
- No guidebook, not even the best one, can tell you who to travel with. If you can, marry your best friend, someone you can talk to and someone you can stay quiet with.
- No guidebook, not even the best one, can tell you who to travel with. If you can, marry your best friend, someone you can talk to and someone you can stay quiet with. Someone who has a good heart and shares your view of what’s important—your values and principles. Find someone you respect and who respects you. Find someone who makes your heart sing—
- In this case, marrying someone who is like you, who comes from a similar background, who shares a religion or lack of one, who has a sense of humor, and so on, is not advice to be dismissed immediately as old-fashioned. Sometimes old-fashioned beats cutting-edge. This
- similar background, who shares a religion or lack of one, who has a sense of humor, and so on, is not advice to be dismissed immediately as old-fashioned. Sometimes old-fashioned beats cutting-edge.
- In this case, marrying someone who is like you, who comes from a similar background, who shares a religion or lack of one, who has a sense of humor, and so on, is not advice to be dismissed immediately as old-fashioned. Sometimes old-fashioned beats cutting-edge.
- Species. Thirty-two years into his married life, he published The Descent of Man. Along the
- Twenty years after he married, Darwin published On the Origin of Species. Thirty-two years into his married life, he published The Descent of Man. Along the way he published books on orchids, vegetable mold, and insectivorous plants. And a biography of his grandfather Erasmus Darwin. And an autobiography. It’s a shame—had he never married, he might have made something of himself.
- Getting over yourself is a good place to start—being aware that you’re not the center of the universe. That requires some level of self-awareness—being aware of how your actions and words affect others and how you’re perceived. Self-awareness can come from therapy, meditation, religion, or reading philosophy or literature.
- something said by the other, a reaction that has been honed over time to be totally subconscious. At its best, what meditation or therapy or religion can do is to allow a pause before the response. That pause
- In a marriage, for example, one partner might react viscerally to something said by the other, a reaction that has been honed over time to be totally subconscious. At its best, what meditation or therapy or religion can do is to allow a pause before the response. That pause can help you realize that what is really going on is not always captured by the words. The pause can remind you that you can step out of the script that you might otherwise be stuck in. The pause can remind you that your natural response is mediated by your own fears, desires, and needs. The pause can remind you that you can step out of your habitual response and be more considerate or thoughtful. With practice, you can change your habitual response to a better one. One of the challenges
- something said by the other, a reaction that has been honed over time to be totally subconscious. At its best, what meditation or therapy or
- In a marriage, for example, one partner might react viscerally to something said by the other, a reaction that has been honed over time to be totally subconscious. At its best, what meditation or therapy or religion can do is to allow a pause before the response. That pause can help you realize that what is really going on is not always captured by the words. The pause can remind you that you can step out of the script that you might otherwise be stuck in. The pause can remind you that your natural response is mediated by your own fears, desires, and needs. The pause can remind you that you can step out of your habitual response and be more considerate or thoughtful. With practice, you can change your habitual response to a better one.
- something said by the other, a reaction that has been honed over time to be totally subconscious. At its best, what meditation or therapy or religion can do is to allow a pause before the response. That pause can help you realize that what is really going on is not always captured by
- In a marriage, for example, one partner might react viscerally to something said by the other, a reaction that has been honed over time to be totally subconscious. At its best, what meditation or therapy or religion can do is to allow a pause before the response. That pause can help you realize that what is really going on is not always captured by the words. The pause can remind you that you can step out of the script that you might otherwise be stuck in. The pause can remind you that your natural response is mediated by your own fears, desires, and needs. The pause can remind you that you can step out of your habitual response and be more considerate or thoughtful. With practice, you can change your habitual response to a better one.
- There’s a different way to think about our lives. Not the storytelling part, which is pretty much hard-wired alongside the self-centered part, but the main character part. Inevitably, if you see yourself as the main character of your own reality show and people around you as part of the supporting cast, you miss a big part of life and who you can be as you experience it.
- To get at the alternative, think about an ensemble cast for a sitcom
- To get at the alternative, think about an ensemble cast for a sitcom or a series. In a show like Friends, there’s no star, no main character. There’s just a bunch of people weaving in and out of one another’s lives. The show may be called Seinfeld, but he’s not the main character. There are four main characters. The show is about their relationships, not just the narrative arc of Jerry’s life. Or think of the movie Love Actually. A star-studded cast but no one’s the star of the movie. It’s a story about love and connection, not the adventures of a central protagonist. Or imagine going out on a
- To get at the alternative, think about an ensemble cast for a sitcom or a series. In a show like Friends, there’s no star, no main character. There’s just a bunch of people weaving in and out of one another’s lives. The show may be called Seinfeld, but he’s not the main character. There are four main characters. The show is about their relationships, not just the narrative arc of Jerry’s life. Or think of the movie Love Actually. A star-studded cast but no one’s the star of the movie. It’s a story about love and connection, not the adventures of a central protagonist.
- When you act tactfully on the dance floor and behave properly, keeping others—your partner and the other couples—in mind, you have a choice in how to think of the experience before, during, and after. You can pride yourself on your selfless behavior or you can see yourself in a more holistic way, as part of something larger than yourself, a fuller, more connected experience.
- didn’t speak to her about it, but I suspect she didn’t think about the worth of the diamond relative to her desire to do the right thing and maintain her self-respect as an honest person. She put her sense of self first; there was no trade-off, no list of expected costs and benefits. Maybe no matter the size of the diamond, she intended to do the right thing.
- the worth of the diamond relative to her desire to do the right thing and maintain her self-respect as an honest person. She put her sense of self first;
- the worth of the diamond relative to her desire to do the right thing and maintain her self-respect as an honest person. She put her sense of self first; there was no trade-off, no list of expected costs and benefits. Maybe
- I didn’t speak to her about it, but I suspect she didn’t think about the worth of the diamond relative to her desire to do the right thing and maintain her self-respect as an honest person. She put her sense of self first; there was no trade-off, no list of expected costs and benefits. Maybe no matter the size of the diamond, she intended to do the right thing. How do you feel
- didn’t speak to her about it, but I suspect she didn’t think about the worth of the diamond relative to her desire to do the right thing and maintain her self-respect as an honest person. She put her sense of self first; there was no trade-off, no list of expected costs and benefits. Maybe no matter the size of the diamond, she intended to do the right thing.
- playwright George Bernard Shaw asks a beautiful woman at a dinner party if she would be willing to go home with him for the night in exchange for one million British pounds. She admits that she would think about it. OK, he responds, how about ten pounds? What do you take me for? she asks, insulted. We’ve already established that, he responds, we’re just talking price.
- Your
- The rule is simple: Privilege your principles. Your decisions define who you are. Don’t make trade-offs when it comes to your essence. Live with integrity. Do the right thing and respect yourself. That at least should be the starting place. For Teodora, the principle was honesty. Sometimes principles conflict. There could be more important principles—the love of a child—that might push honesty aside. Putting your principles
- Your decisions define who you are. Don’t make trade-offs when it comes to your essence. Live with integrity. Do the right thing and respect yourself. That at least should be the starting place. For Teodora, the principle
- The rule is simple: Privilege your principles. Your decisions define who you are. Don’t make trade-offs when it comes to your essence. Live with integrity. Do the right thing and respect yourself. That at least should be the starting place. For Teodora, the principle was honesty. Sometimes principles conflict. There could be more important principles—the love of a child—that might push honesty aside.
- Benjamin Franklin understood this well. He wrote in his Autobiography, “So convenient a thing it is to be a reasonable Creature, since it enables one to find or make a Reason for every thing one has a mind to do.” So use rules. When narrow utilitarianism conflicts with flourishing, remember that the pool is what you know and the pool is seductive. Work hard to remember what your principles are and privilege them—put them first unless you have a strong reason not to.
- So practice at what you want to become. You can change your preferences. What once appealed to you can become unappealing. What you once found unappealing can potentially give you pleasure if you try it and persist at it. Goodness is an acquired taste. And habits are exactly that, habits. If you come to enjoy being generous, honest, less self-centered, the habit becomes self-enforcing, as Frank Knight suggested. When I
- So practice at what you want to become. You can change your preferences. What once appealed to you can become unappealing. What you once found unappealing can potentially give you pleasure if you try it and persist at it. Goodness is an acquired taste. And habits are exactly that, habits. If you come to enjoy being generous, honest, less self-centered, the habit becomes self-enforcing, as Frank Knight suggested. When I
- So practice at what you want to become. You can change your preferences. What once appealed to you can become unappealing. What you once found unappealing can potentially give you pleasure if you try it and persist at it. Goodness is an acquired taste. And habits are exactly that, habits. If you come to enjoy being generous, honest, less self-centered, the habit becomes self-enforcing, as Frank Knight suggested.
- Shop more, worry less. I’m guessing Belichick likes Zappos because free returns and free shipping fit his draft philosophy. Because he knows he can cut a player who doesn’t fit without making a long-term commitment, he orders more players rather than trying to find out in advance with any certainty who the best ones are. He sleeps better around the draft because he knows he has something like the law of large numbers working in his favor—with a big enough class of rookies, some of them will work out when tested in the preseason.
- you, your tastes, your passions, and most important, who you become over time. Putting the shoes on tells you a lot more than reading about how comfortable the shoes are. Seeing the player at your practice rather than someone else’s is particularly valuable. Test-drive the car. Not every wild problem is really a vampire problem, with no hope of return if you get cold feet. Don’t be intimidated by what’s at stake.
- Surveys asking people about their level of happiness may not apply to you, your tastes, your passions, and most important, who you become over time. Putting the shoes on tells you a lot more than reading about how comfortable the shoes are. Seeing the player at your practice rather than someone else’s is particularly valuable. Test-drive the car. Not every wild problem is really a vampire problem, with no hope of return if you get cold feet. Don’t be intimidated by what’s at stake.
- Life choices that turn out differently from what we hoped aren’t mistakes. They’re just choices that turned out differently than we hoped. We shouldn’t call those mistakes. You shouldn’t beat yourself up over them. Forgive yourself. Wild problems that don’t turn out well aren’t mistakes. They’re more like adventures. Adventures have twists and turns and ups and downs. Belichick teaches us that if you can go on an adventure that you can end without great cost, go. If it turns out badly, cut it short. If it turns out well, enjoy the ride. This beats trying to figure out in advance with any precision which adventures are the best ones.
- One way to avoid letting life pass you by is to stop worrying about making a “mistake.” It’s not a mistake when you can’t do any better. So spend less time on figuring out the “right” decision and more time on thinking about how to widen your options and how to cope with disappointment if the decision turns out badly. I think Bill Belichick sleeps well the night after the NFL draft. You can sleep well, too.
