# SelfHelp Is Like a Vaccine Essays on Living Better
- . Obsessively examine behavior. Without exception, I’ve discovered that the cause of my pain is behavioral. In slogan form: The cause of what I feel is what I do. Sadly, the details of what causes what are far from obvious; otherwise, all my pain would be extremely short-lived. The best fundamental pain remedy, therefore, to obsessively search for any behavior that plausibly aggravates your pain. Then test your ideas by mindfully ceasing suspicious activity
- 7. Put less effort into finding a job that pays better than your current job. Put more effort into finding a job that is more enjoyable than your current job. First and foremost: Look for jobs with lots of pleasant social interaction.
- . Reduce the ambition of your family vacations until you have zero desire to scream at your kids or your spouse. The memory of one bad parental fight can easily overwrite a child’s memory of an otherwise magical week
- 1. Don’t bite off more than you can chew. Don’t plan three activities every Saturday, and wind up exploding at your kids’ behavior in the middle of the third. It’s far better for them and you to do one thing together that you can all enjoy, then let them watch t.v. Seriously.
- How would you like it if someone you depended on kept trying to change you? It’s even more foolish to try to change a kid, because he’s likely to change in the desired direction all on his own, in time. In the end, your kid will probably be a lot like you.
- How can I tell? If your main goal is to convince as many people as possible, you naturally focus on emotional appeals — especially to anger, fear, and disgust. Everyone feels these emotions, so everyone’s a potential convert. If you bother making arguments at all, build your case around vivid stories, not step-by-step arguments. Don’t bother trying to pass an Ideological Turing Test for opposing views; you’ll just confuse your audience.1 In fact, don’t bother anticipating and answering the best objections to your views. Just troll and move on.2 Why respond to arguments most of your potential converts have never even heard?
