# Start Small Stay Small A Developers Guide to Launching a Startup
- A study at Dominican University3 revealed that the following 3 factors substantially increased someone’s chance of following through on their goals: 1. Written Goals – “Those who wrote their goals accomplished significantly more than those who did not write their goals.” 2. Public Commitment – “…those who sent their commitments to a friend accomplished significantly more than those who wrote action commitments or did not write their goals.” 3. Accountability – “…those who sent weekly progress reports to their friend accomplished significantly more than those who had unwritten goals…”
- Strive to build a startup that generates $500 per month in profit. This may sound like an easy goal, but will require more work
- Strive to build a startup that generates $500 per month in profit.
- The up-front fear is a big indicator that you’re going to grow as a person if you proceed through it. And, frankly, the terror wears off pretty quickly.
- Your goals must serve as your roadmap that takes you to your definition of a successful startup.
- heard this a few times, but define your goals and write
- How to Avoid It You’ve already heard this a few times, but define your goals and write
- You’ve already heard this a few times, but define your goals and write them down.
- reading business books is a hobby, fantastic. But it won’t get you one hour closer to launch.
- The idea is that most of the information we consume is a waste of time. Newspapers, magazines, blogs, podcasts, the news…are all enjoyable to consume, but they have a tendency to offer a constant distraction from real productivity.
- You can’t consume and produce at the same time – when you’re in high-producing mode you have to temporarily step away from your magazines, blogs, and other forms of distraction for a while. Being in the pattern of checking your RSS reader every time you sit down at your computer kills hours of productivity each week.
- Start by checking your RSS reader once a day and limit yourself to 30 minutes.
- Anytime you’re on your computer ask yourself “Is this activity getting me closer to my launch date?”
- this very moment am I making progress towards crossing off a to-do, -or- am I relaxing and re-energizing?
- The real statement here is that you should never find yourself killing time.
- When reading blogs or books or listening to podcasts or audio books, take action notes.
- Without planning, organizing, systematizing, outsourcing, and marketing, all things you will shy away from as a technician, you will never make it past the $25/hour pit that many startups fall into.
- market, marketing, aesthetic, function.
- Once you have 5 releases under your belt, 1500 targeted visitors every month, a 500 prospect mailing list, and hundreds of incoming links…surprise! Things are easier. Much easier.
- development, support, SEO, AdWords, and every other aspect of your business. The dream of building an app that never breaks, never needs new features and possesses auto-pilot marketing are possible, but they will not come by accident.
- Understanding and embracing the entrepreneurial mindset will go a long way toward preparing you for the chaos that is a startup.
- underscores the importance of finding your market before you have any idea what you
- underscores the importance of finding your market before you have any idea what you are building.
- that they have found a group of people willing to pay for your software.
- If you choose a niche market and focus so tightly that your product becomes the best in class, members of that niche will have no choice but to use your product.
- The correct answer: 100% of the people in a 5,000 person niche.
- Each of these would be considered a warm niche, and introducing a product into this niche will be much easier than choosing a completely unknown market. Remember, you stand a better chance when you know who you’re selling to. Make two columns on a piece of paper. In the header of the left column write “Person” and in the right one write “Hobby or Work Experience.” Now for each row write the name of someone you know, including yourself, friends, relatives or colleagues, and write their work experience or hobby in the right column. These are your warm niches. You’ll need them later in this chapter.
- few paragraphs ago we looked at the process of coming up with warm niches. This is a critical piece – without a niche “insider” your chances of success are dubious at best. But that doesn’t mean you can’t entertain niches that may not be warm. You can always work your network to make a cold niche into a warm one. Coming up with your initial list of niches amounts to pulling ideas out of thin air. Here are a few suggestions on how to do that.
- few paragraphs ago we looked at the process of coming up with warm niches. This is a critical piece – without a niche “insider” your chances of success are dubious at best. But that doesn’t mean you can’t entertain niches that may not be warm. You can always work your network to make a cold niche into a warm one. Coming up with your initial list of niches amounts to pulling ideas out of thin air. Here are a few suggestions on how to do that.
- A few paragraphs ago we looked at the process of coming up with warm niches. This is a critical piece – without a niche “insider” your chances of success are dubious at best. But that doesn’t mean you can’t entertain niches that may not be warm. You can always work your network to make a cold niche into a warm one. Coming up with your initial list of niches amounts to pulling ideas out of thin air. Here are a few suggestions on how to do that.
- Approach #1: Look at All Areas of Your
- Approach #1: Look at All Areas of Your Life
- Approach #2: Look at Occupations
- Approach #3: Cheat
- One way to avoid the multi-step process of brainstorming niches, evaluating demand and selecting a product is to jump right to a product idea. And why not start with some inspiration to stretch and mold into a niche you’re familiar with? • http://www.entrepreneur.com/businessideas/ – Business idea search engine. I found the best ideas searching on Category->Online Businesses. • http://www.sixmonthmba.com/2009/02/999ideas.html – A list of 999 product ideas. Only a portion are software/website ideas, but even the physical product ideas get your mind thinking about specific niches. • http://www.ahbbo.com/ideas.html – Over 400 home business ideas. More of a generator of niche ideas than product ideas. • http://ycombinator.com/ideas.html – Startup ideas YCombinator would like to fund.
- http://astartupaday.wordpress.com/ (also on Twitter at http://ww.twitter.com/astartupaday) – by far my favorite web app idea blog. I’ve come very close to pursuing several of his ideas exactly as he’s written them. • http://ideas.4brad.com/ – crazy ideas from Brad Templeton • http://www.ideaisqueen.com/wordpress/ – I’ve seen quite a few ideas that would work for a Micropreneur on this blog. • http://www.ideatagging.com/ – Another solid idea blog. • http://springwise.com/ – Covers innovations in products and business models. Think about applying the innovations they mention to a niche from your list. • http://www.trendwatching.com/ – A high-level look at emerging consumer trends. • http://www.coolbusinessideas.com/ – Another list of business ideas that are already being implemented by someone.
- The best niches are under the radar, and you have to get out and do something before you will find them.
- As a self-funded startup you want a market that is already looking for your product, even if it doesn’t exist.
- When searching for a niche, there’s a loose rule of thumb that says to stick to markets where you can take out a full-page ad in a magazine targeted at your market for less than $5,000.
- A web search for related magazines and websites • Tracking down their advertising rate cards, which tell you how much it will cost to advertise in their magazine or on their website • Reviewing their circulation (for magazines), visitor statistics (for websites), and rates • Entering websites without rate cards into Compete.com22 to check traffic levels • Checking in with your friendly neighborhood bureau of labor statistics for a sanity check on your findings
- “If I could get only on the front page of [small-but-very-focused-niche-website].com.”
- can they be reached by building an audience such as a mailing list, blog, podcast or video blog, or through search engine optimization?
- For example, if you sell a $10 product and have a 5% conversion rate, you need 1,000 visitors per month to make $500: 1,000 visitors × .05 × $10 = $500
- Give this person a call and grill her on what pains her in the job or hobby that could be solved with software. You’ll probably find at least a few ideas; everyone loves to talk about their daily woes,
- Measuring Demand The Micropreneur Methodology for measuring demand with search engines uses the following free tools: • Google AdWords Keyword Suggestion Tool30 • SEO Logs Keyword Difficulty Tool31 Or the following tool which costs $97 (one-time fee): • Micro Niche Finder32 – The marketing for this tool is bad, but the tool itself is extremely powerful. Before we delve into the approach, let’s get a little background on keyword difficulty tools. Keyword difficulty tools can give us an estimate of the difficulty to rank for a term. Since this is an important and complex issue, let’s look briefly at the three price points and capabilities of these tools.
- You have to get over your desire to write the software yourself.
- We’ll talk more about building your mailing list later in this chapter, for now realize that your mailing list is crucial to your success.
