# The Pragmatic Programmer your journey to mastery 20th Anniversary Edition 2nd Edition
- Does your work environment suck? Is your job boring? Try to fix it. But don’t try forever. As Martin Fowler says, “you can change your organization or change your organization.”[3] If technology seems to be passing you by, make time (in your own time) to study new stuff that looks interesting. You’re investing in yourself, so doing it while you’re off-the-clock is only reasonable. Want to work remotely? Have you asked? If they say no, then find someone who says yes. This industry gives you a remarkable set of opportunities. Be proactive, and take them.
- The greatest of all weaknesses is the fear of appearing weak.
- Instead of excuses, provide options. Don’t say it can’t be done; explain what can be done to salvage the situation. Does code have to be deleted? Tell them so, and explain the value of refactoring (see Topic 40, ​Refactoring​).
- substantial length of time, instills in the inhabitants of the building a sense of abandonment—a sense that the powers that
- One broken window, left unrepaired for any substantial length of time, instills in the inhabitants of the building a sense of abandonment—a sense that the powers that be don’t care about the building. So another window gets broken. People start littering. Graffiti appears. Serious structural damage begins. In a relatively short span of time, the building becomes damaged beyond the owner’s desire to fix it, and the sense of abandonment becomes reality.
- Don’t be like the fabled frog. Keep an eye on the big picture. Constantly review what’s happening
- Don’t be like the fabled frog. Keep an eye on the big picture. Constantly review what’s happening
- Don’t be like the fabled frog. Keep an eye on the big picture. Constantly review what’s happening around you, not just what you personally are doing.
- In this case, though, Ben really hit the nail on the head. Your knowledge and experience are your most important day-to-day professional assets.
- Unfortunately, they’re expiring assets.[9] Your knowledge becomes out of date as new techniques, languages, and environments are developed. Changing market forces may render your experience obsolete or irrelevant. Given the ever-increasing pace of change in our technological society, this can happen pretty quickly.
- similar to managing a financial portfolio: Serious investors invest regularly—as a habit. Diversification is the key to long-term success. Smart investors balance their portfolios between conservative and high-risk, high-reward investments. Investors try to buy low and sell high for maximum return. Portfolios should be reviewed and rebalanced periodically.
-    Invest Regularly in Your Knowledge Portfolio
- Learn at least one new language every year Different languages solve the same problems in different ways. By learning several different approaches, you can help broaden your thinking and avoid getting stuck in a rut. Additionally, learning many languages is easy thanks
- Learn at least one new language every year Different languages solve the same problems in different ways. By learning several different approaches, you can help broaden your thinking and avoid getting stuck in a rut. Additionally, learning many languages is easy thanks to the wealth of freely available software.
- Stay current Read news and posts online on technology different from that of your current project. It’s a great way to find out what experiences other people are having with it, the particular jargon they use, and so on.
- Don’t let it stop there. Take it as a personal challenge to find the answer. Ask around. Search the web—the scholarly parts too, not just the consumer parts.
-    Critically Analyze What You Read and Hear
- Ask the “Five Whys” A favorite consulting trick: ask “why?” at least five times. Ask a question, and get an answer. Dig deeper by asking “why?” Repeat as if you were a petulant four-year old (but a polite one).
- Ask the “Five Whys” A favorite consulting trick: ask “why?” at least five times. Ask a question, and get an answer. Dig deeper by asking “why?” Repeat as if you were a petulant four-year old (but a polite one). You might be able to get closer to a root cause this way.
- believe that it is better to be looked over than it is to be overlooked.
-    English is Just Another Programming Language
- Know what you want to say. Know your audience. Choose your moment. Choose a style. Make it look good. Involve your audience. Be a listener. Get back to people. Keep code and documentation together.
-    Good Design Is Easier to Change Than Bad Design
- For code, that means it must adapt by changing. So we believe in the ETC principle: Easier to Change. ETC. That’s it.
- Many editors have support (either built-in or via extensions) to run commands when you save a file. Get your editor to popup an ETC? message every time you save[14] and use it as a cue to think about the code you just wrote. Is it easy to change?
- first edition of this book we did a poor job of explaining just what we meant by Don’t Repeat Yourself. Many people took it to refer to code only: they thought that DRY means “don’t copy-and-paste lines of source.”
- DRY IS MORE THAN CODE Let’s get something out of the way up-front. In the first edition of this book we did a poor job of explaining just what we meant by Don’t Repeat Yourself. Many people took it to refer to code only: they thought that DRY means “don’t copy-and-paste lines of source.” That is part of DRY,
- Let’s get something out of the way up-front. In the first edition of this book we did a poor job of explaining just what we meant by Don’t Repeat Yourself. Many people took it to refer to code only: they thought that DRY means “don’t copy-and-paste lines of source.” That is part of DRY, but it’s a tiny and fairly trivial part. DRY is about the duplication of knowledge, of intent. It’s about expressing the same thing in two different places, possibly in two totally different ways.
- The name says what it does, and if someone needs details, they’re laid out in the source. That’s DRY!
