# The Pragmatic Programmer From Journeyman to Master
- Plain text is that standard.
- Although the command shells provided with Windows systems are improving gradually, Windows command-line utilities are still inferior to their Unix counterparts. However, all is not lost.
- Make sure that the editor you choose is available on all platforms you use. Emacs, vi, CRiSP, Brief, and others are available across multiple platforms, often in both GUI and non-GUI (text screen) versions.
- A surprising number of people we've met use the Windows notepad utility to edit their source code. This is like using a teaspoon as a shovel—simply typing and using basic mouse-based cut and paste is not enough.
- It sounds simple, but in explaining the problem to another person you must explicitly state things that you may take for granted when going through the code yourself. By having to verbalize some of these assumptions, you may suddenly gain new insight into the problem.
- But this phrase isn't entirely accurate. If the "box" is the boundary of constraints and conditions, then the trick is to find the box, which may be considerably larger than you think.
- Is there an easier way? Are you trying to solve the right problem, or have you been distracted by a peripheral technicality? Why is this thing a problem? What is it that's making it so hard to solve? Does it have to be done this way? Does it have to be done at all?
- There is a simple marketing trick that helps teams communicate as one: generate a brand. When you start a project, come up with a name for it, ideally something off-the-wall. (In the past, we've named projects after things such as killer parrots that prey on sheep, optical illusions, and mythical cities.) Spend 30 minutes coming up with a zany logo, and use it on your memos and reports. Use your team's name liberally when talking with people. It sounds silly, but it gives your team an identity to build on, and the world something memorable to associate with your work.
- The palest ink is better than the best memory.
- We want to see pride of ownership. "I wrote this, and I stand behind my work." Your signature should come to be recognized as an indicator of quality. People should see your name on a piece of code and expect it to be solid, well written, tested, and documented. A really professional job. Written by a real professional. A Pragmatic Programmer.
