# The Sovereign Child
- Babies only have a few, simple needs. They didn’t choose to come into the world and burden their parents with these needs—their parents knowingly burdened themselves. It seems wrong to signal to a person just beginning life that their needs aren’t import
- If, on the other hand, they are restricted to only deeper content that is beyond them, or worse, to bland and “educational” material, then they not only miss out on building their way to an understanding and appreciation of great art, but they may also come to resent it. How many people have been turned off from the classics because they were forced to read them when they were young?
- the end, there are many ways bad things can happen, but there’s also no way to ensure that they won’t. One of the few things we can control is how open and trustworthy we are with our kids as they navigate the culture. Personally, my biggest fear for my kids is that a screen-restricted friend of theirs, one who is forbidden from, and hence titillated by, the darker corners of the internet, will reveal it to them in secret. My best defense is that, hopefully, they’ll want to tell me about
- If we deprive kids of these crucial cultural tools, we deny them one of the most dynamic portals to discovery that humanity has ever created.
- I’m not saying parents should leave toddlers to climb on tables. I’m saying there shouldn’t be a rule that there’s no climbing on tables. Instead, figure out how to make the table safe. Find something else for the kid to climb on. If you really don’t want them on the table, keep the chairs away. I’ll have a lot more to say about alternatives to rules elsewhere, but for now, I’m only saying that neglect is not a viable alternative to rules.
- One way to start out with Taking Children Seriously is to just build in sixty seconds of brainstorming about possible win–wins before issuing any command. Even if you’re in a rush, you almost always have sixty seconds to spare.
- One way to present Taking Children Seriously to a skeptical spouse is to ask that all rules in the house be considered subject to improvement, and any ideas about how to improve them are welcome from anyone in the household. As long as rules are allowed to change and someone makes an effort to think about improvements, you will find some that work to the satisfaction of your spouse and make things better for your entire family. You can’t ask for anything more than that.
- I would say something like, “We let the kids eat whatever they want, and we don’t make them do things like clean up after themselves. Don’t worry about the mess, I’ll clean it up when I get home. Just have fun with them!” When this prompts the inevitable skepticism, I respond with, “We’re doing something kinda crazy. So far it seems to be working out, so we plan on going with it until we see warning signs. In fact, if you see some warning signs, let me know.”
- In fact, we should pursue the opposite: freedom. Freedom doesn’t mean neglect—it still involves safety, health, and order. But these are achieved while preserving kids’ autonomy, not at the expense of autonomy.
