# The Mom Test how to talk to customers and learn if your business is a good idea when everybody is lying to you
- potential user, but we’d need to get critical mass with the stores he goes to before he'll be happy. Maybe we could take over a small
- Entrepreneurs are always drowning in ideas. We have too many ideas, not too few. Still, folks adore giving us more. At some point during a good conversation, the person you’re talking to may “flip” to your side of the table. This is good news. They are excited and see the potential, so they’ll start listing tons of ideas, possibilities and feature requests.
- Startups are about focusing and executing on a single, scalable idea rather than jumping on every good one which crosses your
- Startups are about focusing and executing on a single, scalable idea rather than jumping on every good one which crosses your
- Startups are about focusing and executing on a single, scalable idea rather than jumping
- Startups are about focusing and executing on a single, scalable idea rather than jumping on every good one which crosses your desk. 
- Consider how much easier our lives would have been if we’d understood the motivation behind the request. Instead of enabling the exploration and export of all campaign data, we could have just always exported the few high-level numbers a big brand manager would be interested in. And instead of a self-serve dashboard, we could set up a little scheduler to send it to them every Friday. In fact, we didn’t even need to build a dashboard at all. And instead of coding up a layout and branding system for the reports, we could have had an intern hand-build them each week. All wasted because I didn’t ask the right question. I sure wish I had those 3 months back!
- What!? It’s the worst part of his day and you’re not going to figure out why? That’s insane. You’ve got to dig.
- Questions to dig into feature requests: “Why do you want that?” “What would that let you do?” “How are you coping without it?” “Do you think we should push back the launch add that feature, or is it something we could add later?” How would that fit into your day? Questions to dig into emotional signals: “Tell me more about that.” “That seems to really bug you — I bet there’s a story here.” “What makes it so awful?” “Why haven’t you been able to fix this already?” “You seem pretty excited about that — it’s a big deal?” “Why so happy?” “Go on.”
- Ideas and feature requests should be understood, but not obeyed.
- To deal with The Pathos Problem, keep the conversation focused on the other person and ask about specific, concrete cases and examples. Once someone detects that your ego is on the line, they’ll give you fluffy mis-truths and extra compliments. Disregard that data and use The Mom Test to re-focus on the person, their life, and their goals. People rarely lie about specific stuff that’s already happened, regardless of your ego. 
- Keep your idea and your ego out of the conversation until you’re ready to ask for commitments. 
- Rule of thumb: If you’ve mentioned your idea, people will try to protect your feelings.
- Once you start talking about your idea, they stop talking about their problems.
- Rule of thumb: Anyone will say your idea is great if you’re annoying enough about it.
- Rule of thumb: Anyone will say your idea is great if you’re annoying enough about it. Talk less You can’t learn anything useful unless you’re willing to spend a few minutes shutting up (even if you have something really smart to say). After you introduce your idea (either intentionally or accidentally), they’re going to begin a sentence with something like “So it’s similar to…” or “I like it but…” It’s tempting to interrupt and “fix” their understanding about how it’s totally different and actually does do that thing they want. Alternately, they’ll raise a topic you have a really good answer to. For example, they’ll mention how important security is, and you’ll want to cut in and tell them you’ve thought about all that already. This is also a mistake. In both cases, the listener was about to give you a privileged glimpse into their mental model of the world. Losing that learning is a shame. You’ll have the chance to fill them in later. Plus, it’s annoying to people if they start trying to help you and you cut them off to correct them. Rule
- Plus, it’s annoying to people if they start trying to help you and you cut them off to correct them. Rule
- doing. CHAPTER THREE Asking important questions Once we know about The Mom Test and start trying to ask non-biasing questions, sometimes we over-compensate and ask completely trivial ones. Asking someone how old they are isn’t biasing, but it also doesn’t move your business forward. You have to apply The Mom Test to the questions which matter. Otherwise you’re just spinning your wheels.
- it. Talk less You can’t learn anything useful unless you’re willing to spend a few minutes shutting up (even if you have something really smart to say). After you introduce your idea (either intentionally or accidentally), they’re going to begin a sentence with something like “So it’s similar to…” or “I like it but…” It’s tempting to interrupt and “fix” their understanding about how it’s totally different and actually does do that thing they want. Alternately, they’ll raise a topic you have a really good answer to. For example, they’ll mention how important security is, and you’ll want to cut in and tell them you’ve thought about all that already. This is also a mistake. In both cases, the listener was about to give you a privileged glimpse into their mental model of the world. Losing that learning is a shame. You’ll have the chance to fill them in later. Plus, it’s annoying to people if they start trying to help you and you cut them off to correct them. Rule
- them. Rule of thumb: The more you’re talking, the worse you’re doing.
- can tell it’s an important question when the answer to it could completely change (or disprove) your business. If you get an unexpected answer to a question and it doesn’t affect what you’re doing, it wasn’t a terribly important question.
- You can tell it’s an important question when the answer to it could completely change (or disprove) your business. If you get an unexpected answer to a question and it doesn’t affect what you’re doing, it wasn’t a terribly important question.
- Rule of thumb: You should be terrified of at least one of the questions you’re asking in every conversation.
- But if you’re trying to decide whether to invest your time and money in developing, building and promoting that gadget, then lukewarm is a terrific response. It
- But if you’re trying to decide whether to invest your time and money in developing, building and promoting that gadget, then lukewarm is a terrific response.
- The classic error in response to a lukewarm signal is to “up your game” and pitch them until they say something nice. Unless they’re holding a check, the only thing to gain from “convincing” them are false positives. You’re
- The classic error in response to a lukewarm signal is to “up your game” and pitch them until they say something nice. Unless they’re holding a check, the only thing to gain from “convincing” them are false positives. You’re not here to collect compliments; you’re trying to learn the truth. Their lukewarm response already gave you that.
- Rule of thumb: There’s more reliable information in a “meh” than a “Wow!” You can’t build a business on a lukewarm response.
- You: “What would you say your biggest problem with going to the gym is?” This is where the conversation goes horribly wrong. Instead of figuring out whether staying fit is actually a real problem, we’re prematurely zooming in on it. Any response we get is going to be dangerously
- You: “What would you say your biggest problem with going to the gym is?” This is where the conversation goes horribly wrong. Instead of figuring out whether staying fit is actually a real problem, we’re prematurely zooming in on it. Any response we get is going to be dangerously misleading.
- this point, you might be suspicious about how much I actually care about my blog. When it’s not clear whether a problem is a must-solve-right-now (e.g. you’re selling a painkiller) or a nice-to-have (you’re selling a vitamin), you can get some clarity by asking cost/value questions like the following. “Does-this-problem-matter” questions: “How seriously do you take your blog?”  “Do you make money from it?” “Have you tried making more money from it?” “How much time do you spend on it each week?” “Do you have any major aspirations for your blog?” “Which tools and services do you use for it?” “What are you already doing to improve this?” “What are the 3 big things you’re trying to fix or improve right now?”
- Rule of thumb: Start broad and don't zoom in until you’ve found a strong signal, both with your whole business and with every conversation.
- We then spend weeks with them, figuring out exactly what their dream tool would do. Unfortunately, we've missed the elephant, which is that the poorest schools may not have the budgets
- Product risk — Can I build it? Can I grow it? Will they keep using it? Market risk — Do they want it?
- Product risk — Can I build it? Can I grow it? Will they keep using it? Market risk — Do they want it? Will they pay? Are there enough of them?
- Video games are pure product risk. What sort of question could you ask to validate your game idea? “Do you like having fun?” “Would you like to have even more fun?” Practically 100% of the risk is in the product and almost none is in the customer. You know people buy games. If yours is good and you can find a way to make them notice it, they’ll buy it. You don’t need to rediscover people’s desire to play video games.
- What all this does mean is that if you’ve got heavy product risk (as opposed to pure market risk), then you’re not going to be able to prove as much of your business through conversations
- What all this does mean is that if you’ve got heavy product risk (as opposed to pure market risk), then you’re not going to be able to prove as much of your business through conversations alone. The conversations give you a starting point, but you’ll have to start building product earlier and with less certainty than if you had pure market risk.
- Always pre-plan the 3 most important things you want to learn from any given type of person. 
- Knowing your list allows you to take better advantage of serendipitous encounters. Instead of running into that dream customer and asking to exchange business cards so you can “grab a coffee” (exactly like everyone else), you can just pop off your most important question. And that goes a long way toward Keeping it Casual. Rule of thumb: You always need a list of your 3 big questions.
- Steve Blank solves this by recommending 3 separate meetings: the first about the customer and their problem; the second about your solution; and the third to sell a product. By
- Steve Blank solves this by recommending 3 separate meetings: the first about the customer and their problem; the second about your solution; and the third to sell a product.
- Steve recommends starting with friendly first contacts.
- Rule of thumb: Learning about a customer and their problems works better as a quick and casual chat than a long, formal meeting.
- We’re going to pull exactly the same trick on our early customer conversations. We’re going to strip the pomp and circumstance and reduce it from a meeting to a chat.
- first off, thanks for agreeing to this interview. I just have a few questions for you and then I’ll let you get back to your day…”
- We’re going to pull exactly the same trick on our early customer conversations. We’re going to strip the pomp and circumstance and reduce it from a meeting to a chat. If we do it right, they won’t even know we were talking about our idea. I was considering a product idea to make office managers more efficient. I played with the possibilities on Friday, figured out the big questions over the weekend, and then went to an industry event on Monday. A handful of office managers were there and without any of them realising we’d “had a meeting”, I'd learned that the big problem was really about debt collection rather than efficiency. I got there by just being interested and chatting with them over a beer: “X seems really annoying, how do you deal with it?” “Is Y as bad as it seems?” “You guys did a great job with Z… Where did you get that from?” Being too formal is a crutch we use to deal with an admittedly ambiguous and awkward situation. Instead of leaving wiggle room for the unexpected, everything becomes a process.  Symptoms of formality: “So, first off, thanks for agreeing to this interview. I just have a few questions for you and then I’ll let you get back to your day…” “On a scale of 1 to 5, how much would you say you…”
- Being too formal is a crutch we use to deal with an admittedly ambiguous and awkward situation. Instead of leaving wiggle room for the unexpected, everything becomes a process.  Symptoms of formality: “So, first off, thanks for agreeing to this interview. I just have a few questions for you and then I’ll let you get back to your day…” “On a scale of 1 to 5, how much would you say you…”
- Rule of thumb: If it feels like they’re doing you a favour by talking
- Rule of thumb: If it feels like they’re doing you a favour by talking to you, it’s probably too formal.
- played with the possibilities on Friday, figured out the big questions over the weekend, and then went to an industry event on Monday.
- You can usually get what you came for in 10-15 minutes, but people love telling stories about themselves, so you can keep this conversation going indefinitely if it’s valuable for you and interesting for them.
- Even within a more formal meeting, you still might want to keep it casual if you’re hoping to get non-biased feedback.
- Each held a name and a phone number. “Our analysts kill most of them before they ever reach us, and then we throw out a bunch more. We only end up with about 10 apiece that are serious contenders. We just call every couple weeks to see how it’s going.” Well that doesn’t sound so bad, I said. “Yeah, it works pretty well,” he replied. “Anyway, what did you want to talk about?” 
- Rule of thumb: Give as little information as possible about your idea while still nudging the discussion in a useful direction.
- In sales, moving a sales relationship to the next stage is called "advancement". It's like pushing a customer into the next step of your real-world acquisition funnel. They'll either move forward or make it clear that they're not a customer. Both are good results for your learning. 
- Symptoms: A pipeline of zombie leads Ending product meetings with a compliment Ending product meetings with no clear next steps Meetings which "went well" They haven't given up anything of value
- Commitment — They are showing they’re serious by giving up something they value such as time, reputation, or money.  Advancement — They are moving to the next step of your real-world funnel and getting closer to a sale.
- Rule of thumb: “Customers” who keep being friendly but aren’t ever going to buy are a particularly dangerous source of mixed signals.
- It took me years to learn that there’s no such thing as a meeting which just "went well". Every meeting either succeeds or fails. You've lost the meeting when you leave with a compliment
- It took me years to learn that there’s no such thing as a meeting which just "went well". Every meeting either succeeds or fails. You've lost the meeting when you leave with a compliment or a stalling tactic.
- You're asking for their opinion about your idea (e.g. fishing for compliments) You're not asking for a clear commitment or next steps
- You know how to deal with compliments by now: deflect, ignore, and get back to business.
- I never consider rejection to be a real failure. But not asking certainly is.
- Rule of thumb: If you don’t know what happens next after a product or sales meeting, the meeting was pointless.
- time commitment
- Reputation risk commitments
- Financial commitments
- Rule of thumb: The more they’re giving up, the more seriously you can take their kind words.
- "What are the next steps?" Good meeting.
- "Can I buy the prototype?" Great meeting. The best meeting conclusion I've seen is the rarely-heard but always appreciated, “Can I buy the prototype?” 
- The worst meetings are the wishy-washy ones that you leave with neither rejection nor advancement. You are in no-man’s-land and you won’t learn anything until you fix the meeting by forcing a next step (or rejection).
- Rule of thumb: It’s not a real lead until you’ve given them a concrete chance to reject you.
- There is a significant difference between: “Yeah, that’s a problem” and “THAT IS THE WORST PART OF MY LIFE AND I WILL PAY YOU RIGHT NOW TO FIX IT.” 
- Have the problem Know they have the problem Have the budget to solve the problem Have already cobbled together their own makeshift solution
- Firstly, when someone isn’t that emotional about what you’re doing, it’s pretty unlikely that they’re going to end up being one of the people who is crazy enough to be your first customer. Keep them on the list, but don’t count on them to write the first check. Secondly, whenever you see the deep emotion, do your utmost to keep that person close. They are the rare, precious fan who will get you through the hard times and turn into your first sale.
- Rule of thumb: In early stage sales, the real goal is learning. Revenue is just a side-effect.
- it sounds weird to unexpectedly interview people, then that's only the case because you're thinking of it as an interview instead of a conversation. The only thing people love talking about more than themselves is their problems. By taking an interest in the problems and minutia of their day, you’re already being more interesting than 99% of the people they’ve ever met.
- it sounds weird to unexpectedly interview people, then that's only the case because you're thinking of it as an interview instead of a conversation. The only thing people love talking about more than themselves is their problems. By taking an interest in the problems and minutia of their day, you’re already being more interesting than 99% of the people they’ve ever met.
- Rule of thumb: If it’s not a formal meeting, you don’t need to make excuses about why you’re there or even mention that you’re starting a business.
- Rule of thumb: If it’s not a formal meeting, you don’t need to make excuses about why you’re there or even mention that you’re starting a business. Just have a good conversation.
- Paul Graham recommends a generic launch for the same purposes. Get your product out there, see who seems to like it most, and then reach out to those users. 
- Want to figure out the problems HR professionals have? Organise an event called “HR professionals happy hour”. People will assume you’re credible just because you happen to be the person who sent the invite emails or introduced the speaker. You'll have an easy time chatting to them about their problems.
- Every business is different. Don't just copy what someone else is doing. Consider your own situation, and then get clever.
- Rule of thumb: Kevin Bacon’s 7 degrees of separation applies to customer conversations. You can find anyone you need if you ask for it a couple times.
- Professors are a goldmine for intros. They get their grant funding from high-level industry folks they're on good terms with. And since they’re investing in research, those industry folks are self-selected to be excited about new projects. 
- Professors are easy to get in touch with if you don't know them yet. They post their emails and you can just wander into their office.
- Now’s the time to call in those favours. Yes, they might not have actually meant it, but who cares? Reply back to that ancient email and tell them you’re ready for an intro to that guy they know. Use the format in the next section to make their lives easy and reassure them that you aren't going to waste anybody's
- Now’s the time to call in those favours. Yes, they might not have actually meant it, but who cares? Reply back to that ancient email and tell them you’re ready for an intro to that guy they know. Use the format in the next section to make their lives easy and reassure them that you aren't going to waste anybody's time.
- Now’s the time to call in those favours. Yes, they might not have actually meant it, but who cares? Reply back to that ancient email and tell them you’re ready for an intro to that guy they know. Use the format in the next section to make their lives easy and reassure them that you aren't going to waste anybody's time.
- No expectations at all are set by, "Do you have time for a quick coffee/lunch/chat/meeting?" which suggests you're liable to waste my
- No expectations at all are set by, "Do you have time for a quick coffee/lunch/chat/meeting?" which suggests you're liable to waste my time.
- Show weakness and give them a chance to help by mentioning your specific problem that you're looking for answers on. This will also clarify that you're not a time waster.
- Put them on a pedestal
- Vision / Framing / Weakness / Pedestal / Ask
- “Very Few Wizards Properly Ask [for
- like shooting myself in the foot. More
- The same is decidedly not true on the phone or Skype. People try to squeeze calls in between other activities, wondering how quickly they can “finish with business” and hang up. Folks on the phone are super annoyed when you “just want to chat”. So you need to make the whole thing more formal, which is one of the exact mistakes we’re trying to avoid!
- advisors. You
- Instead, go in search of industry and customer advisors.
- Somewhat counterintuitively, the sales-advisor switch also puts you firmly in control of the meeting, since you're now evaluating them. Even if the topics of discussion are basically the same, you (and they) will notice the difference.
- The UX community (who knows their customer conversation!) says you should keep talking to people until you stop hearing new information. 
- my experience, that could take as few as 3-5 conversations if you have a relatively simple industry and a focused customer segment. If you’ve run more than 10 conversations and are still getting results that are all over the map, then I’d guess that your customer segment is too fuzzy and could stand to be tightened
- In my experience, that could take as few as 3-5 conversations if you have a relatively simple industry and a focused customer segment. If you’ve run more than 10 conversations and are still getting results that are all over the map, then I’d guess that your customer segment is too fuzzy and could stand to be tightened
- In my experience, that could take as few as 3-5 conversations if you have a relatively simple industry and a focused customer segment. If you’ve run more than 10 conversations and are still getting results that are all over the map, then I’d guess that your customer segment is too fuzzy and could stand to be tightened up.
- Rule of thumb: Keep having conversations until you stop hearing new stuff.
- They weren’t having 20 conversations with their customers. They were having one conversation each with 20 different types of customers.
- Rule of thumb: If you aren’t finding consistent problems and goals, you don’t yet have a specific enough customer segment.
- Within this group, which type of this person would want it most? Would everyone within this group buy/use it, or only some of them? Why do they want it? (e.g. What is their problem or goal) Does everyone
- This drilling down into ever more specific groups is called Customer Slicing. You take a segment and then keep slicing off better and better sub-sets of it until you’ve got a tangible sense of who you can go talk to and where you can find them. Start with a broad segment and ask: Within this group, which type of this person would want it most? Would everyone within this group buy/use it, or only some of them? Why do they want it? (e.g. What is their problem or goal) Does everyone in the group have that motivation or only some of them? What additional motivations are there? Which other types of people have these motivations? We now have a two groups of segments: the first is a collection of quite specific demographic groups and the second is a series of motivations.
- we get specific, it becomes easier to imagine where to find these groups. Instead of the generic “students” (I guess I’ll walk around campus?), we can easily find non-native speaking PhD students through the admissions office or the department advisors. We know exactly who to look for and won’t waste our time talking to a bunch of irrelevant folks. Or we can find people online. We might reach new authors by searching Amazon’s upcoming release list and then reaching out to them on Twitter.
- Profitable Easy to reach Rewarding for us to build a business around
- If someone is listening to a podcast about speaking skills, we could sponsor it or propose to the host that they run a “call in to talk about your speaking fears and solutions” live event.
- Rule of thumb: Good customer segments are a who-where pair. If you don’t know where to go to find your customers, keep slicing your segment into smaller pieces until you do.
- When I was building interactive advertising products, I spent lots of time talking to guys in suits and very little (well, none) talking to the teenagers we were assuming would enjoy using our products. Telling my board that I had successfully talked to ten children that week just didn’t seem like the most important thing I could be doing. In retrospect, it clearly was.
- “The customer said so” as the ultimate trump card. 
- seen, it’s easy to misinterpret what the customer
- But as we’ve seen, it’s easy to misinterpret what the customer said.
- “You just worry about the product. I’ll learn what we need to know.”
- “You just worry about the product. I’ll learn what we need to know.” “Because the customers told me so!” “I don’t have time to talk to people — I need to be coding!”
- Your most important preparation work is to ensure you know your current list of 3 big questions. Figure them out with your team and make a point to face the scary questions.
- Sit down with your whole founding team when you prep. You want both business and product to be represented. If you leave part of the company out of the prep, then you end up missing their concerns in the customer conversations.
- Prep questions to unearth hidden risks: If this company were to fail, why would it have happened? What would have to be true for this to be a huge success?
- “What would have to be true for this to be a huge success?”
- Rule of thumb: If you don’t know what you’re trying to learn, you shouldn’t bother having the conversation.
- spending a bit of time improving. Just like prepping, reviewing is so simple that it sounds like a non-step. It’s tempting to skip it. Don’t! The review is important. Disseminate learnings to your team as quickly and as directly as possible, using notes and exact quotes wherever you can. It keeps you in sync, leads to better decisions, prevents arguments, and allows your whole team to benefit from
- Just like prepping, reviewing is so simple that it sounds like a non-step. It’s tempting to skip it. Don’t! The review is important.
- Everyone on the team who is making big decisions (including tech decisions) needs to go to at least some of the meetings. The tech guys don’t need to go to most of the meetings, but you’ll all learn a ton from hearing customer reactions first-hand occasionally. You’ll also be able to help each other catch and fix your conversation mistakes and biases.
- Don’t send more than two people unless it’s group-on-group or you’ve got a particularly good reason to do so. Three folks interviewing someone can be a little overwhelming.
- When possible, write down exact quotes. Wrap them in quotation marks so you know it's verbatim.
- Excited :( Angry :| Embarrassed
- :) Excited :( Angry :| Embarrassed
- ☇ Pain or problem (symbol is a lightning bolt) ⨅ Goal or job-to-be-done (symbol is a soccer/football goal) ☐ Obstacle ⤴ Workaround ^ Background or context (symbol is a distant mountain)
- ☑ Feature request or purchasing criteria ＄ Money or budgets or purchasing process ♀ Mentioned a specific person or company ☆ Follow-up task
- Able to be sorted, mixed, and re-arranged Able to be combined with the notes of the rest of your team Permanent and retrievable Not mixed
- Able to be sorted, mixed, and re-arranged Able to be combined with the notes of the rest of your team Permanent and retrievable Not mixed in with other random noise like todo lists and ideas In practice, I’ve found
- Able to be sorted, mixed, and re-arranged Able to be combined with the notes of the rest of your team Permanent and retrievable Not mixed in with other random noise like todo lists and ideas
- Able to be sorted, mixed, and re-arranged Able to be combined with the notes of the rest of your team Permanent and retrievable Not mixed in with other random noise like todo lists and ideas
- The downside is that it comes across as rude to take notes directly on a computer during a meeting, so you add a bit of mandatory post-meeting work to transfer your notes.
- of thumb: Notes are useless if you don't look at them.
- Rule of thumb: Notes are useless if you don't look at them.
- Signs you’re just going through the motions: You’re talking more than they are They are complimenting you or your idea You told them about your idea and don’t know what’s happening next You don’t have notes You haven’t looked through your notes with your team You got an unexpected answer and it didn’t change your idea You weren’t scared of any of the questions you asked You aren’t sure which big question you’re trying to answer by doing this
- relevant, decide on ideal next steps and commitments If conversations
- With your team, decide your big 3 learning goals If relevant,
- The process before a batch of conversations: If you haven’t yet, choose a focused, findable segment With your team, decide your big 3 learning goals If relevant, decide on ideal next steps and commitments If conversations are the right tool, figure out who to talk to Create a series of best guesses about what the person cares about If a question could be answered via desk research, do that first
- The process before a batch of conversations: If you haven’t yet, choose a focused, findable segment With your team, decide your big 3 learning goals If relevant, decide on ideal next steps and commitments If conversations are the right tool, figure out who to talk to Create a series of best guesses about what the person cares about If a question could be answered via desk research, do that first During the conversation: Frame the conversation Keep it casual Ask good questions which pass The Mom Test Deflect compliments, anchor fluff, and dig beneath signals Take good notes If relevant, press for commitment and next steps After a batch of conversations: With your team, review your notes and key customer quotes If relevant, transfer notes into permanent storage Update your beliefs and plans
- The process before a batch of conversations: If you haven’t yet, choose a focused, findable segment With your team, decide your big 3 learning goals If relevant, decide on ideal next steps and commitments If conversations are the right tool, figure out who to talk to Create a series of best guesses about what the person cares about If a question could be answered via desk research, do that first During the conversation: Frame the conversation Keep it casual Ask good questions which pass The Mom Test Deflect compliments, anchor fluff, and dig beneath signals Take good notes If relevant, press for commitment and next steps After a batch of conversations: With your team, review your notes and key customer quotes If relevant, transfer notes into permanent storage Update your beliefs and plans Decide on the next 3 big questions
- of thumb: Go build your dang company already.
- Rule of thumb: Go build your dang company already.
- Cheatsheet Just in case you like lists. Key skills: Asking good questions (Chapters 1 & 3) Avoiding bad data (Chapter 2) Keeping it casual (Chapter 4) Pushing for commitment & advancement (Chapter 5) Framing the meeting (Chapter 6) Customer segmentation (Chapter 7) Prepping & reviewing (Chapter 8) Taking notes (Chapter 8) The Mom Test: Talk about their life instead of your idea Ask about specifics in the past instead of generics or opinions about the future Talk less and listen more Getting back on track (avoiding bad data): Deflect compliments  Anchor fluff Dig beneath opinions, ideas, requests, and emotions Mistakes and symptoms: Fishing for compliments “I’m thinking of starting a business... so, do you think it will work?” “I had an awesome idea for an app — do you like it?” Exposing your ego (aka The Pathos Problem) “So here’s that top-secret project I quit my job for... what do you think?” “I can take it — be honest and tell me what you really think!” Being pitchy “No no, I don’t think you get it...” “Yes, but it also does this!” Being too formal “So, first off, thanks for agreeing to this interview. I just have a few questions for you and then I’ll let you get back to your day…” “On a scale of 1 to 5, how much would you say you…” “Let’s set up a meeting.” Being a learning bottleneck “You just worry about the product. I’ll learn what we need to know.” “Because the customers told me so!” “I don’t have time to talk to people — I need to be coding! Collecting compliments instead of facts and commitments “We’re getting a lot of positive feedback.” “Everybody I’ve talked to loves the idea.” The process before, during and after the meeting: If you haven’t yet, choose a focused, findable segment With your team, decide your big 3 learning goals If relevant, decide on ideal next steps and commitments If conversations are the right tool, figure out who to talk to Create a series of best guesses about what the person cares about If a question could be answered via desk research, do that first Frame the conversation Keep it casual Ask good questions which pass The Mom Test Deflect compliments, anchor fluff, and dig beneath signals Take good notes If relevant, press for commitment and next steps With your team, review your notes and key customer quotes If relevant, transfer notes into permanent storage Update your beliefs and plans Decide on the next 3 big questions Results of a good meeting: Facts — concrete, specific facts about what they do and why they do it (as opposed to the bad data of compliments, fluff, and opinions) Commitment — They are showing they’re serious by giving up something they value such as meaningful amounts of time, reputational risk, or money.  Advancement — They are moving to the next step of your real-world funnel and getting closer to a sale. Signs you’re just going through the motions: You’re talking more than they are They are complimenting you or your idea You told them about your idea and don’t know what’s happening next You don’t have notes You haven’t looked through your notes with your team You got an unexpected answer and it didn’t change your idea You weren’t scared of any of the questions you asked You aren’t sure which big question you’re trying to answer by doing this You aren’t sure why you’re having the meeting Writing it down — signal symbols: :) Excited :( Angry :| Embarrassed ☇ Pain or problem (symbol is a lightning bolt) ⨅ Goal or job-to-be-done (symbol is a soccer/football goal) ☐ Obstacle ⤴ Workaround ^ Background or context (symbol is a distant mountain) ☑ Feature request or purchasing criteria ＄ Money or budgets or purchasing process ♀ Mentioned a specific person or company ☆ Follow-up task Signs you aren’t pushing for commitment and advancement: A pipeline of zombie leads Ending product meetings with a compliment Ending product meetings with no clear next steps Meetings which "went well" They haven't given up anything of value Asking for and framing the meeting: Vision — half-sentence version of how you’re making the world better Framing — where you’re at and what you’re looking for Weakness — show how you can be helped Pedestal — show that they, in particular, can provide that help Ask — ask for help The big prep question: “What do we want to learn from these guys?”
