# ThePracticeShippingCreativeWork
- “Love what you do” is the mantra for professionals.
- Industrialists seek to make what’s requested, and to do it ever cheaper and faster. But people who have found their voice are able to help us see that life includes more than what’s requested. You’re not a short-order cook. You’re here to lead us.
- Generous doesn’t always mean saying yes to the urgent or failing to prioritize. Generous means choosing to focus on the change we seek to make.
- But that surrender means you’ve sacrificed the most generous (and frightening) thing you can do: trusting yourself enough to show up and ship the work. The right work to the right people for the right reason.
- over time. If your expectations are low, you won’t be disappointed. Too often,
- Too often, though, that suffering becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy, a habit we hold on to that infects our work. Pessimists might try to insulate themselves from disappointment, but they’re probably preventing themselves from shipping important work instead. If generosity is at the heart of our practice, how does cynicism help us become more generous?
- Better clients demand better work. Better clients want you to push the envelope, win awards, and challenge their expectations. Better clients pay on time. Better clients talk about you and your work. But finding better clients isn’t easy, partly because we don’t trust ourselves enough to imagine that we deserve them. Every gig-economy hustler who’s listed on Fiverr or Upwork or 99designs is looking for easy clients. Easy in and easy out, but they’re not better clients than they have now.
- Working their way up by claiming what they’d earned: fans.
- What I helped these musicians understand is that going from town to town and working with easy gigs was wasting their effort and hiding their art. What they needed to do was stay in one town, earn fans, play again, earn fans, move to a better venue, and do it again. And again.
- 96. The Magic of Better Clients Better clients are demanding. They demand more rigorous deadlines, but they also pay more. They demand extraordinary work, but they’re more respectful. And they demand work they can proudly share with others. Better clients also have good taste. You know that better clients exist; you’ve seen them out in the world. The trick is earning them. You don’t do that by doing better work for lousy clients. That’s because lousy clients don’t want you to do better work. They are lousy clients for a reason. They don’t want better work. They want a cheap commodity, or something popular. They want to cut corners, or ignore deadlines, or avoid the risk of doing something new. You earn better clients by becoming the sort of professional that better clients want. It’s lonely and difficult work. It’s juggling—throw and throw, and one day, the catching will take care of itself.
- The work is your client. It’s hired you to help you make a change happen. Getting paid for our work can confuse us, because it might seem that all we need to do is serve the person with a checkbook. But that’s the strategy of a hack—and it rarely leads to the contributions we set out to make in the first place.
- You can’t find a good reason until you know what you’re trying to accomplish.
- Of course, the objections are obvious. Most of them come down to trust. Either the boss doesn’t trust the receptionist to be better than average, or more likely, the receptionist doesn’t trust himself or herself enough to claim this spot.
- I’m not sure that’s what successful people do. All of us get an endless supply of ideas, notions, and inklings. Successful people, often without realizing it, ignore the ones that are less likely to “work,” and instead focus on the projects that are more likely to advance the mission. Sometimes we call this good taste. It’s possible to get better at this pre-filtering. By doing it out loud. By writing out the factors that you’re seeking, or even by explaining to someone else how your part of the world works. Instinct is great. It’s even better when you work on it.
- 122. What’s It for? We have a new ad campaign. Fabulous, what’s it for? Well, we have great actors, and a new logo, and wait until you hear the soundtrack. Sure, that’s fun and it looks like a lot of effort went into it, but what’s it for? Our goal is to get more shoppers into stores. Got it. How does this ad do that?
- Your audience doesn’t want your authentic voice. They want your consistent voice.
- 126. Consistency Is the Way Forward Not sameness. Not repetition. Simply work that rhymes. That sounds like you. We make a promise and we keep it.
- What we seek out is someone who sees us and consistently keeps their promises to bring us the magic we were hoping for. Someone who has committed to rhyming with what they did yesterday. When you trust yourself enough to turn pro, you’re entering into a covenant with those you seek to serve. You promise to design with intention, and they agree to engage with the work you promised to bring them.
- It’s hard to authentically show up day after day, working hour after hour, when there’s probably something else you’d rather be doing. It’s difficult to encounter a dangerous situation without blinking, to patiently persist in the face of criticism, or even to merely show up on a
- have lots of words for people who are proudly inauthentic. We call them professionals, champions, leaders, and heroes. It’s hard to authentically show up day after day, working hour after hour, when there’s probably something else you’d rather be doing. It’s difficult to encounter a dangerous situation
- We have lots of words for people who are proudly inauthentic. We call them professionals, champions, leaders, and heroes. It’s hard to authentically show up day after day, working hour after hour, when there’s probably something else you’d rather be doing. It’s difficult to encounter a dangerous situation without blinking, to patiently persist in the face of criticism, or even to merely show up on a regular basis. But that difficult work is all inauthentic. It’s work we do precisely because we don’t feel like it in the short run. It’s the choice to do something for long-term reasons, not because we’re having a tantrum. Inauthentic means effective, reasoned, intentional. It means it’s not personal, it’s generous. The hack can’t do this. The professional can choose to.
- Simple: He only focused the company on what he thought Microsoft was good at. He structured the company to defend their core competencies, creating an organization that was merely competent. They optimized for the twentieth century and gave away the twenty-first century to people who were willing to fail.
- And stories can change. If
- Stories are real. And stories can change. If your story isn’t working for you, you can find a better one to take its place.
- The uncertainty is the point.
- To be creative is to work on the frontier, to invent the next thing, the thing for which there isn’t a playbook or a manual. Certainty, then, must be elusive, because we can’t know for sure. The elusiveness isn’t a problem, it’s not a bug, it’s not something to be eliminated. The uncertainty is the point.
- We fail and then we edit and then we do it again.
- Two questions about your narrative: 1. Is it closely aligned to what’s actually happening in the world? If, for example, you’re constantly worried about something happening, but it never does, it’s probably a miscalculation on your part. If you believe your work is fabulous but no one wants to interact with it, again, you might not be telling a truthful story about the world. Here’s a simple test. Ask: Do other successful people have this narrative? 2. Is it working? Is the narrative you use helping you achieve your goals? Because that’s what it’s for. If it’s getting in your way, then instead of trying to change the outside world to match your expectations of it, it might pay for you to change the narrative instead. And you’ve already guessed: writer’s block is simply a side effect of our narrative. It’s not an actual physical or organic ailment, simply a story we tell ourselves, one that leads to bad work habits and persistent fear.
- It’s hard to get blocked when you’re moving. Even if you’re not moving in the direction that you had in mind that morning.
- The marathon we don’t see is the year of lonely early-morning runs, the support groups, and the persistence of effort.
- If you run a marathon, you’re going to get tired. It would make no sense to hire a coach and say, “I want you to help me train so I don’t get tired when I run a marathon.” The only difference between the tens of thousands of people who finish the marathon and those that don’t is that the finishers figured out where to put their tired. And the same goes for our art. Everyone who creates feels resistance. Everyone who is seriously engaged in the deep effort of inventing and shipping original work feels the fear. That’s not the question. The question is: where do you put the fear?
- I stopped reading my Amazon reviews seven years ago. Partly because I have never once met an author who said,
- stopped reading my Amazon reviews seven years ago. Partly because I have never once met an author who said, “I read all of my one-star reviews and now my work is much better.”
- But a generous critic? Priceless. The generous critic has taken the time to regard your work, understand your intent, and then speak up. The generous critic is ready to be enrolled in your journey, is eager to go where you’d like to take them. That means you can learn something. And learning something is part of the process.
- True fans require idiosyncrasy.
- We feel like it because we write.
- We don’t write because we feel like it. We feel like it because we write.
- Write to clarify. Write to challenge yourself. Write on a regular schedule. Writing isn’t the same as talking, because writing is organized and permanent. Writing puts you on the hook. Don’t you want to be on the hook?
- Desirable difficulty is the hard work of doing hard work. Setting ourselves up for things that cause a struggle, because we know that after the struggle, we’ll be at a new level. Learning almost always involves incompetence. Shortly before we get to the next level, we realize that we’re not yet at that level and we feel insufficient. The difficulty is real, and it’s desirable if our goal is to move forward.
- UCLA professor Robert Bjork has argued that desirable difficulty is actually required for us to upskill and move to another level.
- We have unlimited reasons to hide our work and only one reason to share it: to be of service.
- Chop wood, carry water. Anchor up. “Yes, and.” Ignore the parts you can’t control.
- No one is keeping you from posting your video. No one is keeping you from blogging every day. No one is keeping you from hanging your artwork. The only way to get through the steps is to do the steps.
