# Were Pregnant The First Time Dads Pregnancy Handbook
- One of the most important things to consider about the first trimester is your current lifestyle. Things like booze and tobacco aren’t conducive to fostering a healthy pregnancy. Mom should be adjusting her lifestyle with the idea that everything she puts in her body can and will have a direct effect on the baby. Eating healthy and getting enough rest are of paramount importance, and you can gently encourage this with your partner.
- This is an exciting yet nerve-racking week for you and Mom. Once she realizes that she’s missed her period, she’s in the clear to take a home pregnancy test, although the accuracy won’t reach its peak until about one week after the missed period. It can be a really difficult thing to wait for the right day to take a pregnancy test. You can get a false negative if she tests too early; however, it’s nearly impossible to get a false positive.
- I sign off, I can’t help but go back to that saying my wife once heard: “Women become mothers the moment they find out they’re pregnant, and men become fathers when they hold their babies for the first time—but there are nine months in between.” I’m a firm believer that men can feel like fathers long before they ever lay eyes on their babies. This book was created to empower us to be better partners and better versions of ourselves. Get invested in your partner’s pregnancy even before day 1. And when the moment comes, be the best damn dad that you can be.
